+++
date = "2008-02-24T21:12:28-07:00"
title = "Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords"
slug = "puzzle-quest-challenge-of-the-warlords-4"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords" ]
platform = [ "NDS" ]
rating = [ "Meh" ]
+++

I needed something to do during travel- and down-time for GDC last week, and I had never gotten around to trying Puzzle Quest before.  I love stat-building RPGs; I love puzzle games.  Unfortunately, what Puzzle Quest taught me is that if you put a half-assed puzzle game together with a half-assed RPG, all you get is a full ass.

The RPG component of the game isn't "bad," per se, just very uninteresting.  Level-ups are very far between.  The equipment system is scant and shallow.  The story is dreadfully boring.  Extra character-building stuff - party members, mounts, captured creatures, et al - are implemented well, but just couldn't get me revved up.

The puzzle engine is where I take serious issue.  It's a two player, turn-based puzzle game with a shared field, and you move by swapping two adjacent pieces.  Here's the problem: you can only swap pieces if they lead to a three-or-more match.  You can't set up forward-looking strategy, unless it happens to coincide with a match you can make right then.  You can't even <i>pass</i>, unless you have enough mana to do so in the form of casting a turn-taking spell.  Which means that if the only move you can make puts the tiles in a position to let your opponent pound you, you have no choice but to take it.  And it really seems like the blocks that fall down when you make a clear almost invariably favor the AI.  Most of the time I'm looking for plays not to my own benefit, but to my opponent's detriment.

I really like the concept of the game, but it's executed very poorly.  On my flight back north I couldn't find my stylus and, frankly, I wasn't too upset.  There was a talk at GDC from the people behind Puzzle Quest, about how they combined 'casual' and 'hardcore' gaming interests; but <i>no</i> part of this game is terribly interesting to me.

<i>Progress: Level 15</i>