+++
date = "2008-07-05T17:07:34-07:00"
title = "Grand Theft Auto IV"
slug = "grand-theft-auto-iv-11"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Grand Theft Auto IV"]
platform = ["Xbox 360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

For "Not Playing" this game, I've actually been playing it quite a bit.  Practically every time I go visit my friend who has it.  This isn't always my doing, either; I am sometimes begged to pick up the controller and start headshotting the LCPD.  Apparently my "style" of playing the game makes for an entertaining viewing experience.  (As far as I know, he hasn't played the game himself in weeks.)

As such, I've been thinking more and more about what makes GTA4 better or worse than its forerunners, and there are some aspects that are as-yet difficult to identify.  The fact that I haven't played any of GTA3 other than {{% game "Grand Theft Auto: Vice City" %}}Vice City{{% /game %}} probably has something to do with that (though I plan on changing this in the near future).

One thing to note, along with all the other stuff I've already noted, is that the improved physics engine in GTA4 makes almost everything seem weightier and more significant.  In general, people and cars move slower, which makes it both more realistic and more fun, in that it becomes easier to see where everything (yourself, pedestrians, police officers, debris) will stand in the coming seconds.  GTA-style mayhem is only enhanced by this improved sense of anticipation and suspense.

<i>Progress: Gave Up</i>