+++
date = "2008-07-26T23:32:15-07:00"
title = "Sam &amp; Max Episode 104: Abe Lincoln Must Die!"
slug = "sam-max-episode-104-abe-lincoln-must-die-2"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Sam &amp; Max: Save the World - Episode 4: Abe Lincoln Must Die!"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Part of {{% game "Sam &amp; Max: Save the World" %}}Sam &amp; Max Season One{{% /game %}}, <i>Abe Lincoln Must Die!</i> is an episode <a href="http://www.telltalegames.com/samandmax/lincolnmustdie">available for free</a> as a teaser of sorts for the series.  So, being a fan of free things, I was obliged to give it a playthrough.  It's been quite a while since I've played a point-and-click adventure game, and so the most immediate frustration I had with Sam &amp; Max was its actual <i>challenge</i>, in that it required me to <i>think</i>.  More than once, I put the game down for a significant period in order to recollect my thoughts.  But as it functions like a puzzle, I was quite self-motivated to piece it together.

In that regard, it plays out remarkably similarly to {{% game "Sam &amp; Max Hit the Road" %}}Hit the Road{{% /game %}}.  At once, this may strike you as anti-progressive - sans the 3D graphics, this <i>is</i> pretty much a game from 1993.  But the other side of this coin is the nostalgia inherent in such a game, and its venerated, tried-and-true gameplay mechanics.  It may not be as exhilirating as modern games, but it is a brain-tickler, and the writing is damn good; honestly, the best comedy I have seen in any game.  And there's something to be said for the slow-paced relaxation factor of it, too.

<i>Abe Lincoln Must Die!</i>, while not the most "engaging" game I've played, has definitely succeeded in making me want to play more of the episodic series.

<i>Progress: Complete</i>
