+++
date = "2015-06-22T23:10:23-07:00"
title = "Splendiferous Supercars, Batman!"
slug = "splendiferous-supercars-batman"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Batman: Arkham Knight"]
platform = ["PC"]
+++

Arkham Knight wastes little time establishing a big-bad, putting Bat-boots on the ground, and settling into its new gimmick, the Batmobile.  And with how highly emphasized said -mobile is in the game's opening missions, I soon began to wonder ... where have the Arkham series' stealth, sneak-em-up moments gone?  To go through the game's introductory sequences with nary a ventilation shaft or ceiling gargoyle is almost unheard of.  What's with the lack of subtlety, Rocksteady?

It took a little bit longer for the answer to become clear.  The Batmobile isn't just an ancillary automotive feature: It is the <b>star</b> of this show.  Not just a means of combating enemy tanks and chasing thugs' cars through the streets, the Batmobile is also a legitimate means of locomotion (easily rivaling cape-flight, in terms of both speed and <i>awesomeness</i>) as well as a platform for gadget-based puzzle-solving.  Just a few moments ago, I was using a powered winch to deform the landscape, jumping off ramps and climbing up walls to reach an objective.

I still anxiously await the moment I'll be able to sneak around a building and stealthily take down thugs from the shadows.  But the Batmobile features quickly, and definitively, establish themselves as more than an also-ran; they are fully-fledged game mechanics, fun, satisfying, and substantial.  There's got to be at least one vehicular boss-fight waiting in here, and I'm absolutely stoked for it.

<i>Progress: 4%</i>