+++
date = "2015-06-29T22:14:33-07:00"
title = "The Dark Blue Screen of Death"
slug = "the-dark-blue-screen-of-death"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Batman: Arkham Knight" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Awesome" ]
+++

I am 26 hours into Arkham Knight.  It says I'm 93% done -- which is probably a bit of an overestimate, given the amount of bullshit that the Riddler always leaves around in these games.  I beileve that I'm up to, if not the ultimate, the <i>pen</i>ultimate story mission right now.  And I've been there for a half-hour or so, <b>because this level has crashed my PC four times in a row</b>.

Let's step back a bit.  The Batmobile was a big gamble, and a big win: Not to spoil too much, but Arkham Knight takes [Black Flag](game:Assassin's Creed IV Black Flag)'s "stealth boating" idea and makes it <i>legitimately good</i>.  Batmobile-specific mechanics, and puzzles, and <i>boss fights</i>, are consistently exhilirating.  Knight doesn't sacrifice the best parts of classic Arkham, either, with plenty of high-tension beat-em-up and sneak-em-up sequences.  And while the Bat's gadgets all appear familiar, they've found some surprising and awesome new uses this time around.  There's a great amount of content in Gotham City; traversing and discovering objectives is a pleasure; and the story is paced remarkably well, in a marked improvement from [Arkham City](game:Batman: Arkham City).

And yet!  And yet.  I will never be able to extoll this game's virtues to anyone else without <i>prefacing</i> those virtues with its technical infidelity on PC.  Not today; not in the distant future, when it finally runs like a dream; certainly not last week, when I relayed this sentiment to whomever might have been in earshot.  In its default state, the PC version of Arkham City looks <i>unfinished</i>.  It has the visual quality and runtime performance of a beta-quality product -- which, let's be clear, means <b>feature-complete but not fit for sale</b>.  Some of its problems <a href="http://steamcommunity.com/app/208650/discussions/0/594821545178755667/">are fixable</a>, but at least in my observation, increase the risk of total system failure.  Honestly, it feels like a catch-22: the game is either distractingly ugly, or distractingly crashy.  And maybe both, depending upon the available hardware.

There is a lengthy and profound discussion to be had about the state of "AAA" multiplatform games on PC.  And there is a whole spiderweb of tangential conversation around that, regarding the shared-memory architectures of game consoles, availability of development talent for proprietary APIs, and the demographics and royalty rates of platform-specific distribution sources.  But for <i>my</i> purposes, the easily cherry-picked talking points are that:

* Rocksteady developed the PC versions of [Asylum](game:Batman: Arkham Asylum) and [City](game:Batman: Arkham City), each at a month's delay after the corresponding console versions.  Both worked great.
* [Origins](game:Batman: Arkham Origins (PC, PS3, WiiU, X360)), the sequel that no one asked for, was developed by whoever-was-available at WB.  The PC version was delegated to a third party, a fact which was not widely known at the time.  In the 11th hour, it was delayed by a few weeks.  It was criticized for its instability (... in addition to uninspired game design).
* Knight, Rocksteady's <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Killing_in_the_Name#2009_Christmas_number_one_campaign">"Fuck you, I won't do what you tell me"</a> finale to the Arkham series, had its PC version delegated to the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iron_Galaxy_Studios">same fly-by-night software house</a> as Origins.

Someone - no, a <i>committee</i> of production personnel - had a clear choice between a delayed, higher-quality PC version from Rocksteady; or a delayed, <i>and/or</i> unsatisfying PC version from anyone else.  And they went with the only option that had a track record of disappointment.

The frustratingly sobering truth about Arkham Knight's technical quality is that, most of the time, it's par for the course.  Although I've encountered a handful of crash-happy level sequences, they appear to be linked to specific arrangements of lighting, or physics objects; the majority of the game is runtime-stable.  The framerate is regularly abominable, though not in a way that's uniquely terrible for PC versions of today's multiplats.  If not for the fact that I've been encountering stability issues during a dramatic, poignant part of the game's story?  I wouldn't have glogged about it at all.  How's that for an indictment of modern PC games.

Arkham Knight is an incredible game, and I look forward to finishing it, whenever I'm drunk enough to suffer through the accompanying BSODs.  <i>(Really?  I'm not drunk enough right now?  I'm fairly drunk right now.)</i>  If Rocksteady never makes another game, I will forever remember it as a triumph of open-world, action, puzzle, and story-driven game design.  And whatever happens in the coming weeks and months of patches, I will also forever remember it as <a href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/davidthier/2015/06/24/batman-arkham-knights-pc-disaster-is-the-perfect-validation-for-steam-refunds/">the game that justified Steam refunds</a>.

<i>Progress: 93%</i>