+++
date = "2015-06-30T18:40:05-07:00"
title = "(Almost) The Game Gotham Deserves"
slug = "almost-the-game-gotham-deserves"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Batman: Arkham Knight"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

In the less-than-awesome column:

<ul>
<li>PC port fuck-up, obviously.</li>
<li>Batmobile handling takes some getting used to.  (I still wouldn't call it "bad.")</li>
<li>A couple story beats fell flat, for me.  One of the game's big reveals was telegraphed too much.</li>
<li>The <i>collect-more-stuff-to-unlock-extra-endings</i> endings feel phoned-in.</li>
<li>The Harley Quinn "story pack" (see below).</li>
</ul>

Everything else about Arkham Knight is a triumph, huge success, et cetera.  Hell, even the constant crashes weren't as bad as they could have been thanks to Rocksteady's insane expertise in frequent, convenient checkpoints.

As in Arkham City, what's really praiseworthy about Rocksteady's work is that they didn't settle for making a better version of the same game; they also made a whole new game to go along with it (via the Batmobile, this time).  Their loving and slavish attention to detail shows through in old and new parts alike.

Having to turn off V-sync just to get through that mission sequence left a sour taste in my mouth -- but I'll be continuing on anyway, to collect more Riddler trophies (and hit up the {{% game "Batman: Arkham Knight - Harley Quinn Story Pack" %}}Harley Quinn mini-campaign{{% /game %}}).

<b>EDIT</b>: So I just finished the Harley Quinn extra episode.  In like, 20 minutes.  This isn't extra content as much as it is a brief advertisement for the real game -- not worth the effort, and certainly not worth shelling out extra money for.  Pretty baffling disappointment.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Batman: Arkham Asylum" %}}Batman: Arkham Asylum{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Batman: Arkham City" %}}Batman: Arkham City{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not as good as</b>: It will be in a few months.  I hope.  
<b>Dear Rocksteady</b>: Consider self-publishing.  Toss your other production and technical liabilities aside.  You can do it, guys.

<i>Progress: 96%, missing some riddles</i>
