+++
date = "2010-04-14T23:46:02-07:00"
title = "Mass Effect 2"
slug = "mass-effect-2-3"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Mass Effect 2"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

For a sequel, Mass Effect 2 sure is full of surprises.

One is the importance of class.  In the [first game](game:Mass Effect), class choice only really changed relative biotic/weapon/tech strength, and the guns Shepard could use.  Mass Effect 2 makes the classes feel <i>special</i>, with unique abilities; my Infiltrator has a temporary invisibility cloak, and enters bullet-time while aiming a sniper rifle, allowing for some wicked headshots.  I'm not sure what all of the other class specialties are, because the class-selection screen does a poor job of illustrating it, but I'm sure they're just dandy for people who don't love sniper rifles.

Also surprising is the modified ammo system, or rather, the effects thereof.  In Mass Effect I mastered the waiting game: fire my sniper rifle, wait for it to cool, and fire again, ad infinitum.  Mass Effect 2 implements 'ammo' in the form of thermal clips, which means I don't have to wait inbetween firing, but also means that it's possible to <i>run out</i> of ammo.  Especially sniper ammo, which has a relatively low maximum cap (currently, I can only carry 10 shots).  I would really have preferred some hybrid system, where I could wait for the weapon to cool if I'm out of clips.

The blatant lack of care in the PC version is another surprise.  For a genre-combination that basically screams "PC" - and considering that the original game's PC version was a significant retool of its console brother - ME2's PC interface is <i>baffling</i>.  Clicking on buttons will sometimes, but only rarely, actually execute anything; frequently I'll also have to click an OK button of some sort.  In-game text windows can't be scrolled with a mouse-wheel, nor with the arrow keys, usually.  Fortunately the real-time combat controls are solid enough, but it seems a bit ridiculous for an RPG to have shitty <i>menus</i>.

A more pleasant surprise is the removal of the nonsensical Omni-Gel.  Now Shepard collects four different kinds of raw material, by searching <s>treasure chests</s> ambient debris in missions, as well as by scanning planets for resources.  These materials are used variously in upgrading the Normandy, improving squad weapons, enhancing armor, and for other miscellany.  So far I've only really used the Iridium resource, though, leaving me with ass-loads of Platinum and Palladium, which just sit around on my ship I guess.

Another surprise?  How awesome it feels to take orders from <a href="http://kotaku.com/5404715/mass-effect-2s-elusive-illusive-man-is--martin-sheen">Martin Sheen</a>.

One thing that isn't surprising is the story and writing: it's the same stuff, although with less of a boring introduction (unless you're new to the franchise, and decide to laboriously read through everything in the Codex).  The plot is enough to pique my interest, but not terribly compelling.  Lead characters are well-written and intriguing, while bit parts are low-budget and expendable.  The Paragon/Renegade system is a little more user-friendly this time around, but sometimes just seems goofy - how is sucking up to Cerberus a renegade act?

I'm not quite as awe-inspired by ME2 as I <a href="http://www.metacritic.com/games/platforms/xbox360/masseffect2">thought I'd be</a>, but it's still fun, and unquestionably more polished than its predecessor.  In fairness, too, I've still got plenty of hours left for the game to heat up.

One more surprise: Miranda's <i>teeth</i>.  Promotional materials do a good job of not focusing on her face, but when the game zooms in... eesh.

<i>Progress: Recruited Mordin</i>