+++
date = "2010-04-01T23:49:46-07:00"
title = "The Saboteur"
slug = "the-saboteur-11"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["The Saboteur"]
platform = ["Xbox 360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Most GTA clones stick to imitating the gritty modern-crime formula, with some floaty aiming and driving controls tacked on; "not as good," in so many words.  But, as they showed in [Mercenaries](game:Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction), Pandemic <s>has</s> <a href="http://kotaku.com/5406830/confirmed-ea-closes-pandemic-studios-says-brand-will-live-on">had</a> a knack for making an open-world havoc game thematically different enough that it feels unique - <i>special</i>, even.  The Saboteur does this in two ways.

The first is <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inglourious_Basterds">killin' Nazis</a>.  It may sound hackneyed, but through the city's oppressed color palette, asshole Nazi NPC behavior, and (somewhat spotty) story scenes, The Saboteur does a great job of vilifying its villains.  More so than receiving upgrade points or advancing the plot, killing those fuckers feels like a genuine reward in and of itself.

The second is <a href="http://www.wired.com/gamelife/2009/12/saboteur-nudity-code/">tits</a>.

The Saboteur is a rare case where, in spite of some jarring voice-over accents and jerky character animations, the game world feels highly immersive - because I <b>want</b> to play in it.  It preys on my knowledge of historical events, my desire to see the Nazis defeated, and my desire to help Sean Devlin get his revenge.  It's a compelling package.

As for the gameplay, it's very workable, although I don't know that I've been blown away (no pun intended) by anything so far.  Naturally, the driving controls are a little floaty; aiming is okay, though.  There's some <game:Assassin's Creed> in here, too, as Sean can climb to the rooftops - but once he's up there, rather than parkour around the city, he tends to just blow shit up.

There are a jillion non-linear objectives scattered around Paris, from destructible Nazi structures, to observation points, to car collecting, not to mention unlockable "perks" from completing particular challenges.  For instance, killing a bunch of Nazis with grenades got me a bigger <a href="http://www.zeldawiki.org/Bomb_Bag">bomb bag</a>.  Though I have yet to dive in too deeply, all those little objective blips on my map are <i>very</i> enticing.

<i>Progress: Act 1</i>