+++
date = "2010-04-26T00:04:53-07:00"
title = "Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare"
slug = "call-of-duty-4-modern-warfare-3"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Meh" ]
+++

When COD4 came out back in twenty-aught-seven, I had no feelings for it one way or the other, aside from some mild satisfaction that someone had finally made a shooter <i>not</i> about World War II.  Fast forward to more recently, when its [follow-up](game:Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2) was about to become <a href="http://www.joystiq.com/2010/04/21/guinness-modern-warfare-2-had-biggest-entertainment-launch-ever/">bigger than Jesus</a>, and suddenly I hear that people are excited about the <b>single-player</b>.  Really?  Allegedly, the first Modern Warfare had a thrilling campaign, and I had gone two years without hearing a word about it.

So far, though, I'm unimpressed.  The tutorial mission was pretty neat, but the narrative is completely disjointed - missions alternate between a British SAS soldier and a US marine, with less cohesion than a typical episode of '24'.  Cutscenes seem more about Michael Bay-style CGI flash than actual content.  And although there are characters, with names, none of them have any personality.  Christ, even <game:Rogue Warrior> managed to have personality.

I'm still pretty early in the game, so I suppose it's possible that things will heat up.  But so far it's nothing more than a standard, lackluster FPS single-player campaign.

As for the gameplay itself, it works - but again, I'm not really impressed.  There are a few touches to make it seem more realistic than typical shooters, but I can't say that I care too much about that.

<i>Progress: 'Hunted'</i>