+++
date = "2010-04-29T22:13:44-07:00"
title = "Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare"
slug = "call-of-duty-4-modern-warfare-4"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Bad" ]
+++

Yeah, the story is completely not interesting at all.  This is a shooter campaign.  Nothing more.  It even comes with terribly unbalanced events, like having to do a rescue mission in the middle of oncoming fire and grenades.  "We'll cover you!" my squadmates say; so why am I the only one killing anything?

Mechanically, Modern Warfare hits most of the right notes, but still has a few irksome qualities - most notably, player collision.  Sounds like a nice feature, but when friendlies are all around me, they have a tendency to block my path, or shove me into harm's way.  Thanks, guys.

I'm halfway through the game, on Regular difficulty, and it just isn't fun anymore.  I die instantly, and repeatedly, with little warning.  I'd love to dial down the difficulty just to see the other half through, but, naturally, there's no way for me to change mid-campaign.  Yeah, the intro mission suggested that I play on easy mode - but now that I believe it, I'm supposed to start the whole game over again?  No way.

Clearly Modern Warfare has been <a href="http://www.metacritic.com/games/platforms/pc/callofduty4modernwarfare">extremely successful</a>, and as far as I know, the multiplayer is some of the best in its class.  But there's nothing to the single-player experience.  In so many words, it's bullshit.

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- Got to "Safehouse"</i>