+++
date = "2010-04-21T00:47:19-07:00"
title = "Mass Effect 2"
slug = "mass-effect-2-4"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Mass Effect 2"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Like the first game, I had a difficult time putting Mass Effect 2 down until I was done with it.  And also like the first, this second installment is very imperfect, with some glaring, systemic problems.  But <i>un</i>like {{% game "Mass Effect" %}}Mass Effect{{% /game %}}, which I only enjoyed in spite of itself - ignoring large swaths of gameplay purely for the sake of sci-fi and laser guns - Mass Effect 2 sold me on a more meaningful part of the package.  It succeeded in compelling me to do <i>side-quests</i>.

Relative to its predecessor, combat is significantly spiced up, with fun abilities and scenarios.  And, playing to their strengths, BioWare has shifted the writing balance away from a Roddenberrian all-encompassing plot, toward a tighter, more character-driven narrative.  Almost all of Mass Effect 2's party members are genuinely intriguing, and fun to conversationally poke.

But the conversation mechanics remain a bit of a let-down.  There are still instances where the "system" - top is Paragon, bottom is Renegade, left delves deeper, right gets out - is the only way to tell what an option <b>really</b> means, because the text isn't illuminating at all.  There are still instances where the preview text is entirely different from what comes out of Shepard's mouth.  And there are still instances where choices are blatantly limited for the sake of narrative direction.  Overall these problems seem less frequent than in the first game, but I may have simply gotten more used to them.

Mass Effect 2's problems aren't just old ones, though.  The new planet-mining mechanic is fun at first, but quickly wears out its welcome, in the face of the massive amounts of resources required for ship and weapon upgrades.  Really, the resource costs just seem way too high.  The new hacking mini-games are - well, the node-connecting one is a neat diversion, but the code-matching one is a royal pain, especially when the code I need to match just <i>won't appear</i>.  The new equipment system - a loadout menu instead of an inventory/equipment screen - is a definite improvement, but weapon options are anemic, with each type seeing two (at most) upgrades from the beginning of the game to the end.

There were times when I was downright <i>irked</i> by environment glitches.  On probably a half-dozen occasions throughout the game, I would find myself floating in the air, unable to get down.  Once I tried saving and re-loading in this state; it put me back in the same impossible position.  Luckily, I had an auto-save only a few minutes back, but that could have been really nasty.

And the New Game + option is welcome - but restricted to the same class I already played?  Why not start me with an advantage into a new class?  That would be a much more persuasive offer for replaying the game, given that, in addition to the countless things that can change in subsequent playthroughs, there are countless more that <i>don't</i>.  I'm simply not that interested in going through hours upon hours of the same old stuff again.

My complaints are numerous, but what ME2 does <i>right</i> is <b>more</b> than a match for them.  The shooting is fun, the characters are interesting, and the game world is, in general, a pleasure to take part in.  The sequel is superior to the original, and a significant step forward.  But there's still a long way between it and perfection.  Here's hoping {{% game "Mass Effect 3" %}}Mass Effect 3{{% /game %}} doesn't rest on this game's laurels.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Mass Effect" %}}Mass Effect{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not as good as</b>: I <a href="http://www.metacritic.com/games/platforms/xbox360/masseffect2">had been led</a> to believe  
<b>My Shepard banged</b>: No one.  I <i>respected</i> them too much.  Can you believe it?

<i>Progress: Finished on Veteran</i>