+++
date = "2014-07-14T20:46:05-07:00"
title = "Goodnight, Card City"
slug = "goodnight-card-city"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Card City Nights" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Meh" ]
+++

After <game:Ittle Dew>, I really wanted to delve deeper into Ludosity's catalog, and Card City Nights was <s>dirt cheap</s> relatively highly-recommended.  But, for an allegedly "simple" game, its mechanics are varied and nuanced enough that its rewards don't really seem worth the effort.  There are <i>so many</i> different effects to wield -- beyond straight-up offense and defense, there's disabling cards, removing cards, <i>rotating</i> cards, and <i>more</i>.  The variety of hypothetical situations would theoretically benefit a balanced deck, with a little bit of everything; but the way the game's numbers work, if you aren't stacking your deck with the right attribute, there's just no way to keep up with the variously min-maxed AI opponents.  It's rock-paper-scissors against a computer that always throws "X," but you won't know what "X" is until you've lost to it.  And don't even get me started on the awkward rarities attached to certain <i>link directions</i>.

Don't misinterpret my complaints: the basic mechanics of the game are interesting, and I think they could actually support some fun sudden-death matchups against humans and balanced AIs.  But the campaign's characters are dedicated to playing in ways that just aren't fun to play against.  And the campaign itself is such a thin facade over the core conceit of <i>collecting more cards</i> that it just doesn't feel worthwhile.

<i>Progress: Won 3/8 legendary cards.</i>