+++
date = "2014-07-17T18:22:46-07:00"
title = "Legacy Design"
slug = "legacy-design"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Rogue Legacy" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
+++

I\.  Hate.  Rogue-likes.  Losing progress - due to poor checkpoint placement, for example - is near the top of my list of general pet-peeves in games -- and the signature mechanic of a modern roguelike is losing all of your progress if you happen to slip up and die.  (In retrospect, hey, <game:Dead Rising> was sort of a rogue-like wasn't it?)  Rogue Legacy is commonly classified as a "rogue-lite," meaning it's a little more forgiving than all that; so I hoped I would be able to tolerate it.  But I was wrong.

Rogue Legacy violates the death-resets-everything rule with purchasable upgrades.  After you die, the money you've collected can be used to buy "manor" upgrades (which unlock new classes, or increase base stats); or, after finding blueprints or runes, to buy equippable items and skills.  This sounds totally sensible in theory.  But in practice, two of Rogue Legacy's core mechanics completely ruin it:

1. The "manor" upgrades become more expensive as you buy more of them (in other words, after investing in upgrade B, upgrade A will be more expensive than before).
2. After the upgrade-purchase process, but before re-entering the dungeon, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charon_(mythology)">Charon</a> takes all of your money.  (Yeah, exactly like <game:Adventure Time: Explore the Dungeon Because I Don't Know!>).

So, after grinding my way to (fairly quick) death a few dozen times, new upgrades are actually <b>more difficult</b> to get than they were before, because the costs have risen so prohibitively.  And it's impossible to gradually accumulate wealth, because, <i>you can't</i>.  The more I play, the harder it gets.  <b>Bullshit.</b>

I won't even get into how badly screwed you can get by the randomly-chosen class options (sometimes you just don't have any good options), and the randomly-generated dungeon layout (sometimes the first room is just a death trap).  Rogue Legacy is designed to work against you.  It is <i>intentionally</i> frustrating.

If you're into that sort of thing, then by all means, go for it.  Personally -- I hate this shit.

<i>Progress: Level 19, never killed any bosses</i>
