+++
date = "2014-07-20T20:10:57-07:00"
title = "They could have at least tried a little harder on the title."
slug = "they-could-have-at-least-tried-a-little-harder-on-the-title"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["PixelJunk Shooter"]
platform = ["PC"]
+++

PixelJunk Shooter's obvious highlight is its fluid physics.  In its first (of three) acts, this is evinced by water and lava, each of which can flow with gravity, and which cool into dirt when combined.  The eponymous "shooter" ship can shoot dirt to open passages, and to divert flows of water and lava around the stage and into each other.

It's a neat trick, and there are a few interesting twists in the form of items and enemies that can spout additional fluids.  But the novelty wears off before long, and what's left underneath is essentially a twin-stick maze navigator, with missiles and an "overheat" dynamic in place of health.  The real fundamentals of the game are a bit on the dull side.

I also got a little annoyed with the level design's reliance on the game's own interpretation of a <a href="http://www.giantbomb.com/monster-closet/3015-1205/">monster closet</a>, with enemies spontaneously appearing upon returning to an earlier and/or central part of the level.  I get that there needs to be some kind of scripted event to push the level along, but the suddenness of the enemy spawns smacks of laziness, where a more sophisticated design would include hints at the upcoming event and allow the player to think ahead.

Anyway.  I enjoyed PixelJunk Shooter for a short while, but got too bored of the mechanics to see it through.

<i>Progress: Finished Episode 1.</i>