+++
date = "2014-07-26T16:46:36-07:00"
title = "Bewitched"
slug = "bewitched"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Dishonored: The Brigmore Witches"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Like [Knife of Dunwall](game:Dishonored: The Knife of Dunwall), Brigmore Witches is a nice little slice of <game:Dishonored>.  This DLC has less levels than its predecessor, but they're larger, more varied, and fuller of free-form activities.  It has more interesting encounters, particularly those involving the titular witches, which (more so than the magic-resilient overseers) inject some fresh challenge into the game's combat.  Its story is also stronger - building on the previously-set foundation to wrap up its side-story - although the ending is a bit over-wrought, and ultimately it's content to live in the shadow of Dishonored's tale, freely giving up some opportunities to further explore the lore of the Outsider and the Void.

Together, Knife of Dunwall and Brigmore Witches form a worthy companion to the main game.  They don't exceed, or even quite meet, the level of satisfaction that Dishonored's original campaign delivered -- with its broader set of levels, and its greater amount of fun abilities.  But they perfectly implement the original's same fundamentals of stealth, exploration, combat, and assassination.  They offer more Dishonored, and that's a good thing.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Dishonored: The Knife of Dunwall>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:BioShock Infinite: Burial at Sea - Episode 2>  
<b>Strongly suggests</b>: that, independent of Corvo (and maybe even of Dunwall), there is plenty of opportunity for a Dishonored 2.

<i>Progress: Finished with high chaos.</i>