+++
date = "2014-07-28T18:27:17-07:00"
title = "Just buy a new teddy -- this one isn't worth finding."
slug = "just-buy-a-new-teddy-this-one-isnt-worth-finding"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Finding Teddy"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Awful"]
+++

Brief and modest as it is, Finding Teddy manages to embody almost everything that I hate about "classic"-styled point-and-click adventure games:

* The controls are bad.  Clickable hotspots are big, but hard to spot, leading to an unreasonably high incidence of mis-clicks.  And the game's few puzzle-like mechanics are very poorly explained, if at all.
* Items and puzzle solutions are absurdly nonsensical.  These things make [Monkey Island 2](game:Monkey Island 2 Special Edition: LeChuck's Revenge)'s "monkey wrench" look downright intuitive.  This shit is pretty bananas.
* There is a central puzzle mechanic that involves spelling things with shapes that look like letters.  Except, they don't actually look much like letters.  It would be one thing if it wasn't <i>clear</i> that they're <i>supposed</i> to be letters, but even after knowing that they are, reading them is almost impossible.
* Backtracking.  For how short it is, there is a <i>surprising</i> amount of backtracking.
* And, yeah.  It's short.

Confession time: I didn't get very far into the game before requiring tips from a guide.  I don't feel bad about it at all, either; to try and figure out what Finding Teddy was trying to tell me, without some extra hand-holding, doesn't seem like it would've been even remotely reasonable.  And unfortunately, with the route clear and the solutions exposed, the game's atmosphere is pretty wanting -- a bit like <game:Limbo>, but, less interesting.

I at least have a little admiration for the artistic theme.  But it isn't worth trudging through the game to experience, and it certainly isn't worth going completely insane attempting to comprehend its puzzles.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Dear Esther>, I guess  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Broken Age>, <game:The Secret of Monkey Island: Special Edition>, <game:Gone Home>, ... the list goes on  
<b>I was considering scooping up a few more easy Steam achievements</b>: but some of them require playing through the game a <i>second</i> time.  No, thanks.

<i>Progress: Finished once.</i>