+++
date = "2014-07-28T22:18:04-07:00"
title = "Qbhuh"
slug = "qbhuh"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["QBEH-1: The Atlas Cube"]
platform = ["PC"]
+++

"QBEH-1: The Atlas Cube" - or simply <i>QBEH</i> as a less-insane person might call it - is not quite what it at first appears to be.  It certainly has all the apparent trappings of a first-person room-puzzler in the vein of {{% game "Portal" %}}Portal{{% /game %}}/{{% game "Portal 2" %}}2{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Antichamber" %}}Antichamber{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Q.U.B.E." %}}Q.U.B.E.{{% /game %}}, et al.  But inbetween the puzzle portions of QBEH lies an environmentally-driven, highly-aesthetic experience, not unlike {{% game "Kairo" %}}Kairo{{% /game %}}.  There's a complete lack of narrative backdrop; only a wide open cube-world to look out at.  Significant swaths of each level have no mechanical relevance at all; just grand vistas and fascinating architecture.  The water and lighting effects on display here are surprisingly high-quality, for how humble a production it is overall.

And, well, it's a good thing that QBEH looks as gorgeous as it does.  At least so far, there isn't much else going for it -- the puzzles are pretty reliant on semi-awkward platforming, and the basic puzzle mechanic of the first few levels (placing and removing blocks) becomes repetitive in short order.  There are barely even any <i>hints</i> of new mechanics, so far.  Here's hoping they start to show up soon.

<i>Progress: Finished Chapter 1</i>