+++
date = "2014-07-31T18:14:06-07:00"
title = "Trine, Trine Again"
slug = "trine-trine-again"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Trine 2" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
+++

It's high time - wow, almost three years after the pre-release demo - I accept that I won't be finishing Trine 2.

My inability to focus on making headway in the game can largely be attributed to the controls.  Back in the first <game:Trine>, the floaty platforming and shoddy hit-detection were grudgingly acceptable -- the cost of doing business with the game's super-cool physics-based puzzles.  Now?  They're just anachronistically unpolished.  Not even Trine 2's gorgeous environments are distracting enough when I keep failing to land a jump, or when I hit obstacles that I absolutely shouldn't have hit.

But even more than the controls and physics, I just can't stay <i>interested</i> in Trine 2.  Sure it looks "good," but it isn't very ... visually engaging.  Plants, stone arches, orcs, some tunnels; it's all very stereotypical and trite.  There's an utter lack of stand-out moments, and even the puzzle elements feel repetitive, with frequent re-use of move-this-thing-to-this-place non-challenges.  The skill trees and level-ups are pretty neat, but otherwise the whole experience is just dull.

I think this would be more fun with more people, in a party-style situation, with alcohol and random wizard attacks.  Barring that, I can't see myself mustering up to yet another attempt on Trine 2.

<i>Progress: About midway through the swamp, this time.</i>