+++
date = "2014-07-31T23:21:26-07:00"
title = "I sense something; a presence I've not felt since..."
slug = "i-sense-something-a-presence-ive-not-felt-since"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Strike Suit Zero: Director's Cut"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

When was the last time I played a spaceflight/dogfighting game?  According to Glog records, it's been like, {{% game "Robotech: Battlecry" %}}eight{{% /game %}} or {{% game "Star Wars: Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike" %}}ten years{{% /game %}}.  Wow.  I can't really say with authority if good games in this genre still get made often; I really haven't been paying attention, since this game type was never at the top of my list.  But I'm definitely glad that I gave Strike Suit Zero a shot, because it reminds me of all the things I loved in those past games.

The titular mechanic of SSZ is a transforming ship a'la {{% game "Robotech: Battlecry" %}}Robotech: Battlecry{{% /game %}}, but I wouldn't really call this combat modality the <i>focus</i> of the game.  Rather, transformation is more of an intermittent flavoring on top of an {{% game "Star Wars: X-Wing" %}}X-Wing{{% /game %}}- and {{% game "Star Wars: TIE Fighter" %}}TIE Fighter{{% /game %}}-styled combat sim.  There are fighters and interceptors to chase, capital ships to strategically target, enemy objectives to destroy, and friendly objectives to protect; the comm-channel banter with allies even has all the right space-military trappings ("Copy that!").  The HUD is informative without being overcomplicated, easily indicating relevant targets and current status, and the controls (with a twin-stick controller, anyway) are joyously intuitive -- with the slight exception of some occasionally-frustrating auto-targeting.  All the fundamentals are here, and they're all done very well.

Strike Suit Zero also has a pretty impressive space-opera setting, showing inspiration from both western and anime tropes.  But the narrative is sort of a mixed bag, with a balance of skilled and awkward writing, and good and bad voice acting to go with it.  And some story bits, especially the introductory exposition, are more long-winded than they need to be.  The overall atmosphere of the game feels best when you ignore the characters and <i>words</i> that make it up, which is a bit unfortunate.

The graphical presentation, too, has its highs and lows.  Lighting and special effects, i.e. <i>space explosions</i>, are a spectacle to behold.  But whenever there are breaks in the action, the low-polygon models and low-detail textures are a bit too obvious.  It's a shame, because aside from these kinds of cracks in the veneer, Strike Suit Zero looks much better than you'd expect from a self-publishing indie.

Ignoring those imperfections, I'm having quite a bit of fun with Strike Suit Zero so far.  Space, robots, lasers, missiles, explosions -- I mean, it ticks all the necessary boxes, without even breaking a sweat.

<b>N.B.</b>: Evidently, {{% game "Strike Suit Zero" %}}Strike Suit Zero{{% /game %}} and its Director's Cut are fairly different games: the Director's Cut includes additional content, but is also at feature-parity with the console ports, missing some of the original PC version's graphical polish.  At least, that's what I've read on the interweb; past its rocky launch period, it's hard to get a straight story about this.  Point being, SSZ and the Director's Cut are different in ways that may, or may not, be significant.  I think.  Maybe.

<i>Progress: Finished Mission 5 of the original campaign.</i>