+++
date = "2013-05-22T00:03:44-07:00"
title = "The Ongoing Saga of Star-Crossed Lovers, Space Marine and Alien Queen"
slug = "the-ongoing-saga-of-star-crossed-lovers-space-marine-and-alien-queen"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "StarCraft II: Heart of the Swarm" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
+++

By far, my favorite part of [Wings of Liberty](game:StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty) was how the campaign applied drastic and awesome mechanical twists to the otherwise unsurprising StarCraft formula.  Heart of the Swarm was long promoted as having even more unique twists in this regard, and ... I am still looking forward to them.  Though I just got done complaining about how [AC3 King Washington](game:Assassin's Creed III: The Tyranny of King Washington)'s first chapter failed to remind me how to play, Heart of the Swarm is really going out of its way to hold my hand, like I've forgotten how to <i>click</i> on things -- and so I'm still stuck in slow, remedial-level gameplay.  I hope I can get to the interesting stuff soon.

But despite my meager progress so far, I already dislike the story.  Gunpei almighty, this is one of the most melodramatic game scripts I've ever seen -- within minutes of the game's opening, Raynor and Kerrigan are acting like they've been ripped straight out of <i>Gone With the Wind</i>.  What makes it worse is that the voice actors really give it their best; it would be a great performance, if <i>any</i> of the context was properly set.  Come on, just shut up and show me the space opera already.

<i>Progress: Finished the second mission.</i>
