+++
date = "2013-05-24T19:39:00-07:00"
title = "The Secret Nationalist Revisionists Don't Want You to Know: King Washington's Magic Brainwashing Scepter"
slug = "the-secret-nationalist-revisionists-dont-want-you-to-know-king-washingtons-magic-brainwashing-scepter"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Assassin's Creed III: The Tyranny of King Washington" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Meh" ]
+++

Although [The Tyranny of King Washington](game:Assassin's Creed III: The Tyranny of King Washington)'s second chapter "The Betrayal" doesn't have its predecessor's rude awakening, it still opens pretty rough -- the first three missions take about a minute each, and are framed with big blocks of mediocre dialog.  This feeling of rushed, roughshod development becomes a running theme: the new spirit animal power, Eagle Flight (like a teleport-jump), is awesome when it works -- but proper targeting is prohitively difficult.  Running and parkouring around Boston seems, more so than in the [main game](game:Assassin's Creed III), too easily interrupted by unwanted climbs and incorrect jump directions.  And the scenes where you encounter Ben Franklin come across like they were jammed in over a long lunch break.

Even though The Betrayal has open-world hijinks in town, rather than the snowy wilderness of The Infamy, I found myself just as disinterested in exploring and collecting this time.  It might have something to do with the density of King Washington's hostile footsoldiers on the streets, who are always on the look-out for a half-dressed native with a wolf hide on his head.  (As in The Infamy, one of the core game's features that's been trimmed from the DLC is the ability to reduce your notoriety.)

Although The Betrayal is theoretically a superset of The Infamy, it feels less polished overall.  And like its predecessor, this chapter is also quite short, at about two hours of total mission content.  We'll just have to see if the next and final "The Redemption" chapter lives up to its name.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Red Faction: Armageddon - Path to War>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: "The Infamy" opening chapter of <game:Assassin's Creed III: The Tyranny of King Washington>  
<b>When your "last time" intro cutscene is longer than some missions</b>: You may have misallocated some development resources.

<i>Progress: Finished the story, skipped the collectibles.</i>
