+++
date = "2013-05-30T23:30:21-07:00"
title = "Something about, costumes, thin material, shallow ... material ... it's a thin game."
slug = "something-about-costumes-thin-material-shallow-material-its-a-thin-game"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Costume Quest"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

Costume Quest has a healthy serving of Double Fine's witty writing talent, a lovely sense of charm, and some truly gorgeous visuals.  Really, that's the whole point of the game: watching the characters' embellished, superhero costume characters jump around and use outlandish powers against monsters.  Because there's nothing else of any real interest here.

Explore an area, picking up candy (currency), doing simple fetch-style sidequests, and battling baddies to progress.  Battles themselves are dead simple, with one basic attack and one special move unique to each costume -- which you can change, but only outside of battle.  Combat does include some basic button-prompts (think {{% game "Paper Mario" %}}Paper Mario{{% /game %}} or {{% game "Mario &amp; Luigi: Superstar Saga" %}}Mario &amp; Luigi: Superstar Saga{{% /game %}}), but these are too simple and predictable to stay interesting.  There are experience levels, but as level-ups just increase your core stats and enemies level-up alongside you, this doesn't add any depth to the system either.  There are equippable accessory stickers, but their effects are limited, as are the number you can equip (one).

If there's an ideal way to enjoy Costume Quest, it might be as a parent with a young child; but it's still single-player, so, I dunno.  As flashy and funny as it is, the game is just too easy and too tedious, even for its short length.

<i>Progress: Gave up -- Got to the mall.</i>