+++
date = "2024-01-01T11:59:58.0314129-08:00"
title = "2023 in Review: Trading Tech Debt for Game Debt"
category = [ "Site News" ]
+++
Data may suggest that I've neglected the Glog over this past year:

:::chart
type: "ColumnChart"
datafile: "/data/postsandgames_2023.json"
title: "Posts and Games"
legend: "{\"position\": \"bottom\"}"
:::

... but that suggestion is *only mostly correct*.  Unlike my [excuse about backlog-culling in 2022]($SiteBaseURL$2023/01/01/2022-in-review-more-from-less-more-or-less/), I must admit that in 2023, I simply didn't play very many games.

However!  Technically, pedantically, loophole-ally, I very much did not neglect **[the Glog's code](https://github.com/tsuereth/glog)**; what started as a [weekend hacking project]($SiteBaseURL$2023/09/10/manifest-glogstiny/), revamping how I build this website, eventually turned into [automated data updates with auto-correcting reference links](https://github.com/tsuereth/glog/pull/15).

Now I'm just waiting for that reference-correction case ... *to actually occur ...*

Anyway, I did play **some** games in 2023, new and otherwise:

:::chart
type: "AreaChart"
datafile: "/data/demosandreplays_2023.json"
title: "Games Demoed and Replayed"
legend: "{\"position\": \"bottom\"}"
isStacked: "percent"
pointSize: 5
focusTarget: "category"
:::

Last year started with me wrapping up a [Witcher 3](game:The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt) replay in [Blood and Wine](game:The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt - Blood and Wine).  Although I'd timed this replay to take advantage of the game's [late 2022 tech update](https://www.cdprojekt.com/en/media/news/the-witcher-3-wild-hunt-arrives-on-next-gen-this-december/), Blood and Wine [reminded me that]($SiteBaseURL$2023/01/16/vallee-dabondance-hon-hon-hon/):

> ... Witcher 3 didn't *need* an update to make it worth replaying.  And nowhere is this more evident than Toussaint, where the [Blood and Wine](game:The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt - Blood and Wine) expansion doesn't *just* paint a beautiful rural-urban-hybrid landscape with the same kind of deeply enthralling content as the main game.
>
> [...] [Blood and Wine] encapsulates all the best that Witcher 3 has to offer, in an irresistably beautiful virtual France.

Later in the year, I returned to Middle-earth in [Shadow of Mordor](game:Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor) and [Shadow of War](game:Middle-earth: Shadow of War).  The former always felt a bit like a proof-of-concept, a prototype, for the game Monolith really had in mind -- and the new-to-me [Bright Lord](game:Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor - The Bright Lord) DLC, with its territory and army features, kinda confirmed that.

Mordor's [Lord of the Hunt](game:Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor - Lord of the Hunt) add-on, and War's [Blade of Galadriel](game:Middle-earth: Shadow of War - Blade of Galadriel) and [Desolation of Mordor](game:Middle-earth: Shadow of War - Desolation of Mordor), were also more fun than I'd expected them to be.  That last DLC in particular felt like a successful experiment in [re-theming the base game's mechanics]($SiteBaseURL$2023/12/18/mordors-caped-crusader/):

> ... thanks to Desolation of Mordor's other design ambition: [Batman](tag:Batman: Arkham) tech.
>
> Baranor may not have *elf magic*, but he does have **gadgets** - okay, "[Numenorean artifacts](https://shadowofwar.fandom.com/wiki/N%C3%BAmen%C3%B3rean_Gauntlet)" - which let him grapple up walls, glide through the air, and lob explosives from afar, plus a few tricks for controlling crowds and stunning captains.

So, my replayed games in 2023 were already pretty DLC-heavy, but wait: there's more!  (More DLC, I mean.)

:::chart
type: "AreaChart"
datafile: "/data/gametypes_2023.json"
title: "Games by Type"
legend: "{\"position\": \"bottom\"}"
isStacked: "percent"
pointSize: 5
focusTarget: "category"
:::

Although I praised <game:Outer Wilds> in 2022, I didn't write about- okay, I didn't *give up on* its [Echoes of the Eye](game:Outer Wilds: Echoes of the Eye) expansion until [months later]($SiteBaseURL$2023/04/23/blind-spot/).

> ... I've been reluctant to return because this DLC is chock-full of the exact "obtuse points" that only occasionally [marred my Outer Wilds playthrough]($SiteBaseURL$2022/07/24/spaceloop/).

The confusingly-named, also-first-person, also-in-space, but wholly-unrelated <game:The Outer Worlds> came with a couple DLCs of its own: [Peril on Gorgon](game:The Outer Worlds: Peril on Gorgon) and [Murder on Eridanos](game:The Outer Worlds: Murder on Eridanos).  These ended up feeling like "more of the same" of the base game, for better [and for worse]($SiteBaseURL$2023/04/22/same-shit-different-worlds/):

> Like the main game, Gorgon and Eridanos are stuffed with a large *amount* of content, but it's thoroughly one-note and unimaginative.  [...]
>
> Peril on Gorgon and Murder on Eridanos **aren't bad**, but they are **bland**; and if you already felt that way about the base game, then these expansions won't change your mind.

Hey, speaking of <rating:Meh> games:

:::chart
type: "AreaChart"
datafile: "/data/ratings_2023.json"
title: "Ratings"
colors: "[\"gray\", \"red\", \"orange\", \"gold\", \"green\", \"blue\"]"
legend: "{\"position\": \"bottom\"}"
isStacked: "percent"
pointSize: 5
focusTarget: "category"
:::

I played my share of underwhelming titles in 2023 -- particularly, cool ideas with flawed execution, like <game:Return of the Obra Dinn> being skewered by its unhelpful notebook; <game:Midnight Protocol> ruining its hacking strategy with random dice-rolls; <game:A Way Out> struggling to balance co-op gimmicks with storytelling; and <game:Eternal Threads> moving *way too slowly* as it unraveled its narrative.

Most heartbreaking, for sure, was <game:Last Call BBS> feeling more like a retrocomputing demo than a fitting [farewell to Zachtronics]($SiteBaseURL$2023/12/20/you-dont-have-to-go-home-but-you-cant-sleep-here/):

> The holistic experience feels like a warmly authentic celebration of the era when personal computers were fascinating toys, and not quite yet indispensable tools.  But - and here's the disappointing bit - it *doesn't* meaningfully celebrate <tag:Zachtronics>' back catalog of programming puzzle games.
>
> [...] Some of these games are short, and some are too long and repetitive, but they're all -- well, not "simple" exactly, but *shallow*.  Even the implementation details of the three programming games don't feel like "depth" so much as overcomplications of small ideas.

But! I also played some stand-out <rating:Awesome> games in 2023, even aside from old-favorite replays.  [Disco Elysium](game:Disco Elysium: The Final Cut) was a real treat, *dense* with *uniquely weird* [world-building and interactions]($SiteBaseURL$2023/02/25/life-sucks-lets-solve-a-murder/):

> Points of interest in Martinaise, and its population's personalities, are all rich with fine, meticulous, *artisinal* details to unravel.  There's *so much* fascinating history, and colorful commentary!, to read through.  It's like <tag:Mass Effect>'s Codex but with dialog choices.
>
> [...] Sometimes, actually quite often, Disco Elysium's side-stories are so intriguing and enthralling that you'll forget all about its primary thread.  Which makes the murder-mystery plot's twists and turns *extra* surprising.

And [Tears of the Kingdom](game:The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom) did an incredible job of [revisiting, but also reinvigorating, its predecessor]($SiteBaseURL$2023/07/09/wild-harder/):

> The Depths recapture the same feelings that made Breath of the Wild so memorable: being overwhelmed by a huge new world, and terrified by its angry inhabitants; getting taunted by its dangers as you carefully work on quests in its margins; gradually powering up and becoming more comfortable in it; and eventually **overpowering it** by eating its big, weird baddies for breakfast.
>
> [...] Like last time, [quality-of-life] issues melt away in light of Tears of the Kingdom's awe-inspiring new environments, its refreshing twists on the old, and the incredible *amount* of stuff you can do in its even-more-massive world.

And then there's <game:Cyberpunk 2077>.

I called it <rating:Good>, I enjoyed it in parts, but ultimately I couldn't ignore that it felt "[very unfinished]($SiteBaseURL$2023/06/04/its-still-a-bit-punky/)":

> There <b>are</b> good parts: mechanics that're functional and fun, missions that tell memorable stories, character interactions that feel real and engaging.  But there are also plenty of lulls, and misses, and outright mistakes.  [...]
>
> It's a shame that Cyberpunk 2077's impossible ambition prevented it from telling a complete story.

But just a couple months after that post, [CD Projekt announced](https://forums.cdprojektred.com/index.php?threads/new-features-are-coming-to-cyberpunk-2077-along-with-phantom-liberty.11118172/) their "Update 2.0" patch alongside the [Phantom Liberty](game:Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty) expansion.  So, yeah, *we will see*.

What else am I looking forward to in 2024?  Well, aside from upcoming releases like <game:Horizon Forbidden West: Burning Shores> (on <platform:PC>) and <game:Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney Trilogy>, there are a bunch *more* 2023 releases that I still need to catch up on -- <game:Star Wars Jedi: Survivor>, <game:Baldur's Gate III>, <game:Super Mario RPG (2023)>, and <game:The Talos Principle II> (whose [demo I quite enjoyed]($SiteBaseURL$2023/10/29/well-principled/)), just to name a few.

At the moment, I'm quite enjoying some deep-sea fishing and sushi-ing with <game:Dave the Diver>.  But Dave had better solve the "Sea People's" problems soon, 'cause my backlog is starting to grow again.
