+++
date = "2012-06-15T00:31:54-07:00"
title = "Spec Ops: The Line"
slug = "spec-ops-the-line-4"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Spec Ops: The Line"]
platform = ["PC"]
+++

Years and years ago - or at least what feels like it - Spec Ops: The Line came out trailers blazing, with the claim that it could invigorate the art of storytelling in third-person shooters.  With a premise inspired by <i>Heart of Darkness</i> (and a central character named John Konrad), plus the fresh and exciting setting of a sandswept Dubai, it seemed well on its way.

Several delays later, with a release date finally looming later this month, the demo makes it clear that this uniqueness wasn't enough for 2K -- they wanted what everyone else had, too.  The demo content lays out a beat-by-beat set-piece based shooter campaign that any modern gamer will feel right at home in.  But what the demo <i>doesn't</i> make clear is if that spirit of strong narrative was sacrificed, or is still lurking around.  Certainly these guys aren't breaking any genre barriers with their ambient voice-overs and non-interactive cutscenes; but there are hints of a potentially compelling story in here, too.

To be fair, the gameplay isn't bad or overly trite, either.  Actually I quite liked the headshot mechanic, which temporarily slows down time when you surprise an enemy with a bullet in the face -- especially useful when rushing into a hot zone.  So even if the story <i>does</i> blow, it looks like there'll be a solid game on top of it.

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- Finished the demo</i>