+++
date = "2012-06-17T23:28:43-07:00"
title = "Syndicate (2012)"
slug = "syndicate-2012-4"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Syndicate (2012)" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

Syndicate's shooting is surprisingly good, which may be a bit of a backhanded compliment but here we are.  Almost immediately, the controls were a bit daunting, at least on a mouse and keyboard setup -- I got the impression that Starbreeze wanted me to have more easily-recognizable buttons in my grip, particularly for the hack-like "breach" abilities.  But the shooting is solid, and even early on I'm encountering some neat weapons, like an automatic rifle that can shoot around corners and a sniper rifle with a close-range firing mode.

The "Overlay" mode, which is a combination of [Batman](game:Batman: Arkham Asylum)'s Detective Mode and a bullet-time-esque slow-motion, gives combat a really enjoyable rhythm.  Managing the use of Overlay (which recharges over time but depletes rather quickly) keeps extended encounters from becoming tedious, while the Overlay itself provides an immensely satisfying rush of empowerment when it's available.

As for the story, it's a bit of a mixed bag.  The intro was heavy on sci-fi and corporate intrigue, but since then I've only been strung along between set pieces.  I'm really hoping that the plotting becomes thicker as I proceed through the campaign.

I do have to complain a bit about the level design, specifically how frequently I'm getting lost in hallways because there isn't a strong indication of where I came from or where I'm going.  Unlike many other games of its ilk, Syndicate doesn't care to point an arrow toward your current goal, or highlight interactive doors or other items.  Which would be fine if this was a slower-paced game, or if there was any point to exploring the levels, but it isn't and there isn't.

<i>Progress: I'm on a train!</i>