+++
date = "2014-12-18T22:52:19-08:00"
title = "Sm4sh: Super Smoursh Brothers"
slug = "sm4sh-super-smoursh-brothers"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Super Smash Bros. for Wii U"]
platform = ["Wii U"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

I'm disappointed in Smash for Wii U, but not for good reasons.  It isn't my kind of game -- but I don't think it was ever supposed to be.

While the Smash Bros. franchise {{% game "Super Smash Bros." %}}started{{% /game %}} as a "fighting" game, at some point ({{% game "Super Smash Bros. Melee" %}}the Melee point{{% /game %}}), someone decided to <a href="http://www.apex-series.com/">take it seriously</a>.  And I thought that was weird, but, whatever.  What I wanted out of Smash Bros. was some multiplayer hijinks, and <b>solo activities</b>.

The core experience of fighting other folks is <i>better than it's ever been</i>, and the insane number of characters to choose from means that multiplayer will never, ever get stale.  That's definitely the good news.

Melee delivered a challenging and replayable story-adventure mode, and {{% game "Super Smash Bros. Brawl" %}}Brawl{{% /game %}} upped that ante with its wild and irreverent Subspace Emissary mode.  This installment's equivalent is ... <i>conspicuously absent</i>.  The closest it really has is the return of All-Star Mode, a brief series of limited-stock fights against progressively-harder teams.

Remember the target-smashing minigame from the past three games?  It's replaced here with some Angry Birds knock-off.  That's weird, right?  Luckily, the home run contest is still here, although that can only hold up for so long.  The creatively-fun "<a href="http://www.ign.com/wikis/super-smash-bros-wii-u-3ds/Event_Mode">Events</a>" scenarios are definitely my favorite offering, but unlocking new events can be a real chore.

Then there's the bizarre boardgame-like Smash Tour, which is like the worst version of {{% game "Mario Party" %}}Mario Party{{% /game %}} ever; and even this game's "classic" mode revolves around a weird metagame of moving statues around with other randomly-arranged statues.

While Melee really embellished the bare concept of "Nintendo fanservice fighter," and Brawl added a <i>crazy</i> amount of content to it, Smash 4's extra offerings just feel misguided and unnecessary.  The modes that <b>I</b> wanted are gone, and a lot of their replacements are ... inscrutable.

And so what I'm left with in Smash 4 is a good party game.  That's not "bad," in fact I'm still pretty happy with it.  But I had built up this hope in my head, for some kind of <i>Super</i>space Emissary story mode, wackily crossing Nintendo franchises together into a grand adventure.  (And I was also hoping for more unlockable trophies, and less unlockable customization items that I really don't care about at all.)

I'll continue trying to chip away at its extra content from time to time, I suppose.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Super Smash Bros. Brawl" %}}Super Smash Bros. Brawl{{% /game %}}, as a party game.  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "Super Smash Bros. Brawl" %}}Super Smash Bros. Brawl{{% /game %}}, as a single-player game.  
<b>And, I have to add</b>: that the menus are just awful.  The conceptual organization of features is complete nonsense, and everything of genuine interest is like three, four, even <i>five</i> submenus deep.  Utter madness.

<i>Progress: Unlocked all the characters.</i>