+++
date = "2014-12-21T01:07:54-08:00"
title = "Shut up snail!"
slug = "shut-up-snail"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Chronology" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Meh" ]
+++

Chronology is a short game, but it manages to vary pretty widely.

In its first half, Chronology is an amateurish but pleasant puzzle-platformer.  The puzzles are fine, while the platforming is a little rough.  And the production quality is just good enough to get by -- with its terrible (but not [the worst](game:Blood Knights)) voice acting offset by some very well-drawn environments.

In the third quarter, the puzzles get more difficult, but not exactly in a good, <game:Braid> style of adding mechanics and combining ideas; actually, these puzzles most closely resemble the worst kind of point-and-click adventure, where some pixels have to be hunted and some environmental items have to be combined in illogical ways.

Finally in its last throes, the platforming ramps up into a short series of timing-heavy jumping and switch-pushing.  The game is never very good at edge collision, and the last couple chapters just shine a spotlight on this weakness.

The whole affair is a little under two hours.  So none of these problems <i>endure</i> long enough to be really grating.  But so, too are Chronology's victories short-lived.

On the whole, Chronology is just insubstantial.  It barely does anything at all, let alone right or wrong.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:The Bridge>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Papo & Yo>  
<b>Longer than</b>: <game:Gone Home>
