+++
date = "2014-12-22T22:20:48-08:00"
title = "A holy sword, uh, control, dream?  Something about a way, and a light, uh... ha.  Who the hell knows?"
slug = "a-holy-sword-uh-control-dream-something-about-a-way-and-a-light-uh-ha-who-the-hell-knows"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Mitsurugi Kamui Hikae"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Bad"]
+++

I was naively hopeful that Mitsurugi Kamui Hikae would be like {{% game "Killer Is Dead" %}}Killer Is Dead{{% /game %}} without all the bullshit.  And while it does strip away Grasshopper's obtuse pretense, it also doesn't have the latter game's sense of purpose or progress... while simultaneously lacking its <i>sensibility</i>, as hard as that is to believe.

The tutorial is intriguing enough, with an arena-style demonstration of basic attacks and tactics.  When the game properly starts, though, it's a bit of a surprise that... it's <i>still</i> in an arena.  Enemies come in waves -- not in, like, a subtle way.  "Wave 1."  "Wave 2."  The game doesn't dress this up at all; just sends out an escalating series of enemies in the same vaguely-circular level.  And while there are ability upgrades, they don't flow with the game at all; there's just an upgrade menu, and skill points to spend on said upgrades.

Aesthetically, it's pretty good for a home-made title.  The character models are really well done (regardless of one's feelings regarding <a href="http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=238011253">panty-shots</a>), and the visual effects are great.  On the other hand, the soundtrack is barely an afterthought, and the overall level design - aforementioned vaguely-circular arenas - is uninspired.

At least I didn't get hours into Mitsurugi Kamui Hikae before discovering that I disliked it.  So it has that on Killer Is Dead, I suppose.

<i>Progress: Finished Stage 1</i>