+++
date = "2007-10-30T21:30:25-07:00"
title = "Battalion Wars 2"
slug = "battalion-wars-2-7"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Battalion Wars 2"]
platform = ["Wii"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

To elaborate on the online multiplayer:

There are three online game types, 4-6 missions of each type, and two sides in each mission.  You can choose whatever side you want, or that you don't care; whatever mission you want, or that you don't care, even which game type, or that you don't care.  And you can play any configuration with friends, or with Anyone - so, the net effect is that really Anyone can go to the first multiplayer screen and select Anyone / Any Type, and you can find <i>some</i>one waiting to play in short order.

As for the different types -

* <b>Co-Op</b> is an interesting experience, and assuredly, best with actual friends.  Two forces fight together, and each force gets different units, e.g. one might have anti-air and the other might get bazookas.  Strategically, the mission demands that each regiment pick their targets and work together.  So when you're playing with Ned Newbie - or even with a moderately skilled player that moves at a different pace than yourself - the missions become extremely difficult, slash, impossible.  The '1' and '2' buttons can be used for suggesting orders to your compatriot, but these are mostly useless.
* <b>Assault</b> puts one player in the seat of defense, and the other becomes the aggressor.  There are five strategic points between the assault front and the defender's HQ; the defender is tasked with keeping these alive, the aggressor, with destroying them.  Finally the aggressor must capture the defender's HQ.  If the aggressor cannot achieve all this within the time limit, the defender wins.  This is a fun gametype, especially as the close respawn points make the match enjoyable even for a player who is being stomped.
* <b>Skirmish</b> is just what it sounds like.  Each player is given some units, and kills (or alternate objectives, like destroying key targets or capturing facilities) earn points.  After time runs out, the one with the most points wins.  This is all-out war, and there are scenarios available for whatever your fighting fancy may be.

I wouldn't say the online multiplayer is a deal-maker, nor a deal-breaker; it's a well-polished and fun addition to the game.

<i>Progress: 100\%</i>