+++
date = "2007-10-27T19:14:03-07:00"
title = "Battalion Wars 2"
slug = "battalion-wars-2-8"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Battalion Wars 2"]
platform = ["Wii"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

The first 60% or so flies by fast - the first missions are more tutorial than anything, and there are even some new game mechanics that make it easier: capturing facilities, like Barracks and a Factory, can replenish lost units as a battle proceeds.  These missions get a bit complicated (multiple phases), but aren't terribly difficult.

Then, at about the 75% mark, BWii becomes {{% game "Battalion Wars" %}}its predecessor{{% /game %}}.  Facilities are no longer present, and the missions become <i>huge</i>, and tough as nails.  I enjoy it, and it's no <i>worse</i> than the first BW, but I feel like they could have done something more interesting.

The controls work out really well for the most part.  Naval units are just like land units, but on water.  Submarine diving is a snap, with a downward nunchuck shake submerging the sub, and an upward shake surfacing it.  The naval units integrate with the rest of the game really well (which, incidentally, feels very well-balanced for the amount of unit types there are now).  My only complaint about the controls is that air units, steered by tilting the remote, are a borderline impossibility to pilot.

I managed to find someone to play online earlier, in a Skirmish battle.  The map I played put me and my opponent each in command of a small naval blockade, with the winner being the one with the most points (from destroying the other guy's stuff) at the end of a time limit, and units respawning throughout.  I got creamed, and I didn't feel like the map was very fun, but the other ones sound much better.  What impressed me the most was the network performace - if there was any latency, I wasn't able to notice it at all.

<i>Progress: 90%</i>