+++
date = "2014-11-09T20:07:15-08:00"
title = "Transforming the useless, pristine land into a marvel of smoggy industry."
slug = "transforming-the-useless-pristine-land-into-a-marvel-of-smoggy-industry"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Factorio"]
platform = ["PC"]
+++

Yes.  <a href="http://www.factorio.com/">This</a> is what I want.

{{% game "Minecraft" %}}Minecraft{{% /game %}} pulled me in with its "craft" component, of which the "mine" component was a formulaic pre-requisite.  To me, {{% game "SpaceChem" %}}SpaceChem{{% /game %}} wasn't just a super-challenging, <a href="http://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/p1ssv/dear_internet_im_a_26_year_old_lady_whos_been/">science-based</a> puzzle game, but a method of implementing parallel, programmatic logic in the form of a virtual assembly line.  And many years ago - in the vaguest of my gaming memories - I recall a shareware game, whose title I can't remember, about managing assembly lines on a factory floor, for similar purposes of correctly and efficiently forming <i>inputs</i> into <i>outputs</i>.

If I were to navel-gaze on this, I'm pretty sure it would reduce to the same thing that drives my interest in computer programming, ... which is probably related to a God-complex or some other ego thing.  <b>But</b> my point is -- <i>creation</i> is fascinating to me, and so creating things <i>which create other things</i> just makes my entire brain light up.  Not in a seizure way, but, you know, in a fun way.  And Factorio is exactly that: not just gathering materials, but building machinery with those materials, and using that machinery to gather even <i>more</i> materials, and build more machinery, <i>et cetera ad infinitum?</i>

I am somewhat intrigued by what might be the goal or objective of the final game, re: {{% game "Pikmin" %}}finding a spaceship{{% /game %}}, or hunting aliens, or -- whatever.  But even without that, Factorio is easily the most fun I've had in a crafting-centric game thus far.  Forget building weapons and armor in {{% game "Terraria" %}}Terraria{{% /game %}}, or making underwater cities in Minecraft; <b>industry</b> is what I want, and Factorio obliges.

<i>Progress: Finished the demo mini-campaign</i>