+++
date = "2011-06-26T21:35:42-07:00"
title = "Shadows of the Damned"
slug = "shadows-of-the-damned-5"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Shadows of the Damned"]
platform = ["Xbox 360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

At about eight hours from start to finish, Damned doesn't <i>feel</i> brief, exactly -- the action rarely lets up, there's plenty of generally well-paced variety, and the ending is pretty satisfying.  But it is a little disappointing (if not unexpected, given Suda's track record) that there isn't really anything more to do.  While it's possible to miss some upgrade items, there's no Chapter Select or New Game+, so you can't try again without starting over from scratch; and while a handful of minigames (a shooting gallery, demon bowling, and a scrolling shoot-em-up) seem like great candidates for more post-game content, there simply isn't any.

The game isn't technologically perfect, either -- the roll/turn control can sometimes work in unexpected ways (particularly in heavy action), there are frequent opportunities to get stuck in level/NPC geometry, loading times in general are kind of ridiculous, and on occasion there are rough bouts of texture pop-in and stutter.  So, yeah, not perfect.  But I never felt like putting the game down out of frustration.  Its difficulty comes more genuinely, from tricky enemies and fast-paced sequences, than from fighting the controls.

Shadows of the Damned doesn't have the crazily inventive gameplay of {{% game "No More Heroes" %}}NMH{{% /game %}}, and at the same time, its more-accessible gunplay can't compete with the top of the genre.  But if you're interested in a more zany, grindhouse take on {{% game "Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition" %}}Resident Evil 4{{% /game %}}, then this should be a real treat.  And of course, if you're a fan of Suda's earlier work, then this is a no-brainer.  <i>&iexcl;Cabr&oacute;n!</i>

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Killer7" %}}Killer7{{% /game %}}, {{% game "BioShock 2" %}}BioShock 2{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "No More Heroes" %}}No More Heroes{{% /game %}}, {{% game "BioShock" %}}BioShock{{% /game %}}  
<b>Unfortunately, the Big Boner weapon is only in one level</b>: fortunately, it's a pretty fun level.

<i>Progress: Finished on Demon Hunter (normal)</i>