+++
date = "2011-06-11T16:59:54-07:00"
title = "Majin and the Forsaken Kingdom"
slug = "majin-and-the-forsaken-kingdom-7"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Majin and the Forsaken Kingdom"]
platform = ["X360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

I've been playing this in small spurts for the past couple months.  As it turns out, the demo covers a <i>very</i> early part of the game (basically the middle of the tutorial chapter), so the environments and puzzles get pleasantly more complex from there.  The combat, not so much, at least so far; it's a little tedious, but fortunately doesn't seem to be a primary part of the game going forward.

Moment-to-moment, the world of Majin is inviting, curious, and fairly impressive: exploring the area, figuring out what to do, and then <i>how</i> to do it, is pretty consistently fun.  But what makes Majin so hard to come back to is the lackluster high-level objective (I guess, restore the Majin's power, and kill all the bad guys?) and, relatedly, unclear mid-level goals.  So far I'm just collecting items of power and unlocking doors, for the purpose of getting to some more items and more doors.  The game isn't really doing very well at highlighting what I should be working towards, let alone helping me get there.  What's my motivation?  Why am I doing this?

I hope to continue on with Majin, because when I have the controller in my hands, it is an enjoyable experience.  But when I'm away from the game, it's hard to get excited about.

<i>Progress: Near the beginning, in some ruins or something</i>