+++
date = "2007-07-07T00:52:58-07:00"
title = "Wii Play"
slug = "wii-play-2"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Wii Play" ]
platform = [ "Wii" ]
rating = [ "Bad" ]
+++

At the NOA employee store, remotes are $30, and Wii Play (bundled with a remote) is $36.  I needed a replacement remote - and I figured, for six bucks, what could the harm be?  Now, having seen all that Wii Play has to offer, I think I would rather have kept my $6.

Wii Play consists of nine minigames.  In order of appearance (from a fresh save file, the games must be played <i>sequentially</i> in order to unlock them all):

<b>Shooting Range</b>  
Oh sweet!  Duck Hunt!  Wait... where are the ducks going?  No!  Come back ducks!  Damn it.  As it turns out, Shooting Range is a dullish and rather long series of aiming and firing challenges.

<b>Find Mii</b>  
Where's Waldo would make an awful video game.  But if you take the basic concepts of pattern recognition and apply them to more creative premises - finding duplicate Miis, searching for specific Miis, looking for Miis exhibiting a particular behavior - wouldn't it be a lot more fun?  Well, no, it isn't.

<b>Table Tennis</b>  
Take the Tennis game from <game:Wii Sports>, make the playing field much smaller, and replace the ability to control the orientation of the racket with manual paddle movement.  Don't try to move the paddle faster to make a more powerful shot; you will only overshoot your target and miss completely.  Really, little more than a graphically sophisticated <game:Pong>.

<b>Pose Mii</b>  
The only interesting part of this game is figuring out what the hell you're supposed to be doing, so I won't ruin the fun for you.

<b>Laser Hockey</b>  
Surprisingly tolerable!  Move air-hockey mallets around to knock the puck into your opponent's goal.  Pro: the whole thing is stylized with colorful lasers and particle effects.  Con: the puck does not react to force, so playing it fast is simply impossible.

<b>Billiards</b>  
Nine-ball!?

<b>Fishing</b>  
Difficult to understand, and even more difficult to pull off, especially when the huge warning text that claims you're not <i>close</i> enough to the television covers half the fish pond.  First fish I caught gave me -50 points.  <i>Negative</i> 50 points!

<b>Charge!</b>  
Tilt remote forward, wait for game to end.

<b>Tanks!</b>  
A game of satisfying complexity and reasonable control, but is just too damn hard.  It plays like a two-axis shooter, ala <game:Robotron: 2084> or <game:Geometry Wars>, with movement controlled by the D-pad, or the stick if you've got a nunchuck, and aiming controlled by simply pointing the remote (I expect the <game:Alien Syndrome (2007)> remake to use a similar scheme).  The problem is that just as you take out enemy tanks in one shot, so too do they defeat you in a single blow.  So between the impossibility of moving fast enough to dodge an incoming shot, the fact that the rounds ricochet off walls, and <i>splash damage</i>, everything past the first handful of stages is an exceedingly difficult endeavor.

All of these games can be played by one or two players.  I played through them all with a friend, and each game had both of us almost invariably begging for the end.  We actually played Laser Hockey and Tanks! twice each, but even that was pushing it.

It's not the production values, it's not the execution, and in most cases it isn't even the control setup.  The bottom line is that Wii Play is just fundamentally flawed: all of its games suck.  They aren't fun.  Buying it for any reason other than the controller inside is a mistake.

<i>Progress: Complete</i>