+++
date = "2010-03-19T21:16:14-07:00"
title = "Perfect Dark"
slug = "perfect-dark-8"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Perfect Dark"]
platform = ["X360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

It helps that 4J Studios has seen fit to acquire and implement higher-resolution textures and character models than what could be afforded a decade ago.  I wish they had done something about the <i>sound</i> quality, too.  But regardless - this game is <b>still good</b>.  I flailed around for a while because the controls are a bit different, but a couple missions later it all started coming back to me, and I felt just like I was holding an N64 controller (aside from, you know, the retarded shape of it).

The biggest failing of PD for XBLA, and this is a big one, is that there is an <b>auto-aim</b> setting, which is

1\) <i>on</i> by default,  
2\) <i>hideously</i> effective, and  
3\) <i>valid in online multiplayer</i>.

Time was, if your opponents had auto-aim on, you could reach over a few feet and smack 'em upside the head.  But with the advent of The Internet, this is significantly harder.

So, until/unless someone fixes this, random online multiplayer can't really be taken seriously.  But it still does split-screen, and you can do private games with your Xbox Live buddies - not to mention <b>keep a steady framerate</b> - so overall it's a better experience than the original was.  Hell, in many ways, it's better than modern shooter games.  Three words: <i>Laptop sentry gun</i>.

<i>Progress: Chicago streets - worst mission ever!</i>