+++
date = "2009-01-28T00:29:26-07:00"
title = "Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening"
slug = "devil-may-cry-3-dantes-awakening-2"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening"]
platform = ["PS2"]
+++

Argh.  I tried to like my Devil May Cry three-pack - I mean, I didn't try <i>very hard</i>.  I started [the first game](game:Devil May Cry) several times, trying to get into it, but none of it took.  On reports that [DMC2](game:Devil May Cry 2) was total garbage, I gave the third a shot, and found a few differences:

- The over-the-top action tone was turned <i>up</i>, from melodramatic to cheesy/parodic

- As far as I saw, the insipid free-roaming areas were removed, streamlining the process between insipid fight sequences

- Longer cinematics?  I think this actually makes more action in the cutscenes than in the game

Admittedly, I've come into the series from its future, which gives me something of a perspective bias.  But I hesitate to give DMC too much credit.  This is a completely polarized game: the combat is either <i>monotonous button mashing</i>, or <i>impossible strings of combo sequences</i> (how long has it been since combo sequences were fun?).  In both the first and third games, I kept dying in ways that did nothing to illustrate how I might go about <i>not</i> dying, a cardinal sin of game design.

And don't get me started on the black hole that is the series' story and theme.  DMC feels like <game:God of War>, but <b>dumber</b>.  And to be frank, I didn't consider God of War very smart.

I'm sure there's something to like for someone in here.  But I don't think it's for me, and I no longer care to look for it.

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- Almost finished mission 2</i>