+++
date = "2014-10-27T20:26:05-07:00"
title = "Wonderize!-- wait, wonder... eyes?"
slug = "wonderize-wait-wonder-eyes"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "The Wonderful 101" ]
platform = [ "WiiU" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

The Wonderful 101 makes a <i>lot</i> more sense when it's played from the beginning, rather than jumping in at the second level (like the demo apparently does).  The game's wacky mechanics are explained clearly in thematically-appropriate tutorials, and the narrative scenario is laid out in perfectly-understandable, uh, Super Sentai terms.  By the end of the prologue level, Wonderful 101 seems like a totally sensible action game with a unique gameplay twist and a fun cartoony setting.

That feeling of <i>sensibility</i> wavers pretty rapidly, though.  As soon as the game gets challenging, it makes some demands: blocking, dodging, mastering the awkward camera zoom, and strategically managing weapon and battery usage.  What makes matters worse is, the <b>vital</b> block and dodge moves must be purchased from the item shop between levels; on my first attempt, I didn't even check the shop, which made progressing through the subsequent level (the same one from the demo) outlandishly difficult.  I only happened upon the camera controls - using the shoulder buttons to zoom in and out - by accident; and even then, the fixed angle can make it pretty tough to see when enemies are charging in from a distance.

So there are some weird design choices and some basic mechanical problems.  But the core gameplay is still pleasantly wacky, and managing weapon deployments is pretty distinctly neat.  Plus the attack-block-counterattack cycle makes it feel like a real character-action game, which is cool.  When I can measure up to the game's challenge, it's plenty of fun.  Hopefully I can continue to do so.

<i>Progress: Operation 001-B</i>