+++
date = "2006-11-20T23:56:37-07:00"
title = "Wii Sports"
slug = "wii-sports-3"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Wii Sports"]
platform = ["Wii"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

I've never been big on sports (except maybe <game:Mega Man Soccer>), so I wasn't expecting much out of this except some cheap thrills as an apartment activity.  I wouldn't say I was wrong, but I totally underestimated Wii Sports.  I might argue that it's the best party game since [Smash Bros.](game:Super Smash Bros. Melee)  To contextualize this, I played Wii Sports with my three roommates, so we had a full team so to speak.

The games themselves are something of a mixed bag.  Tennis is probably the most fun for partying situations: extremely easy to play, and way too entertaining to watch your friends flail around with a racket.  Baseball, none of us have figured out how to bat yet, so it's hard to enjoy.  Bowling is pretty cool and easy to play, but not as exciting as a time-based game.  Golf is pretty fun by design; we're having some issues with club-swinging (mostly putting), but that's probably a learning curve situation.  Boxing is actually pretty exhausting since it involves so much arm movement, which has its own pros and cons.

Like I said, partying with Wii Sports is way fun.  There's more to it too, like a Training mode that allows you (and optionally your pals) to play mini-games related to the five core games and hone your skills, and a Fitness program (for the solo player) that's like [Brain Age](game:Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day!) but without the "brain" part.  I haven't explored these much so far, but I may delve further into them at some point.

<i>Progress: Tried out all 5 games, haven't done much else</i>