+++
date = "2010-08-10T22:54:57-07:00"
title = "Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Conviction"
slug = "tom-clancys-splinter-cell-conviction-6"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Conviction"]
platform = ["X360"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

Ubisoft has done a [tremendous](game:Assassin's Creed II) [job](game:Prince of Persia: The Forgotten Sands) of disappointing me lately.  Splinter Cell: Conviction makes it a trifecta.

The game starts out promising enough, building on the fun I had in the demo: while previous Splinter Cells left me bored and frustrated in a matter of minutes, Conviction offered an easily accessible sneaking system, a pleasant amount of freedom in killing thugs (and in completing other objectives, I guess), and an exciting <i>edge</i> that the <a href="http://www.metacritic.com/games/platforms/xbox360/robertludlumsthebourneconspiracy">Bourne game</a> could only wish to achieve.  The first few levels are actually pretty fun, and I would generously describe the experience as "[Arkham Asylum](game:Batman: Arkham Asylum) with a gun."

But then things start to go awry.  The game's narrator, for some reason, suddenly decides to flash-back to Desert Storm -- and now, instead of sneaking around with a silenced pistol, you're charging down sandswept streets with an assault rifle.  Putting aside the curious narrative gaffe - the game proceeds to turn into a bad episode of <i>24</i> - it raises the question, what game did the design team <i>want</i> to make?  (Given the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Splinter_Cell:_Conviction#Development">four years</a> Conviction spent in development, it seems like they weren't sure, either.)

Returning from the flashback, levels become overburdened with enemies - who, as I discovered at this point, don't indicate their line-of-sight very well - and <i>understaffed</i> by effective hiding spots.  As the challenge escalates, options dwindle.  Well, more weapons become available, but these are basically meaningless; you have a few silenced pistols which are barely different from one another, and using any of the rest of the weapons is just asking to be killed (Sam Fisher is <i>much</i> worse at soaking up bullets than Batman is).

Oh, and checkpoints: they're terrible.  This is 2010, guys.  If I die and have to repeat the last fifteen minutes of my life, <i>I</i> didn't fuck up, <i>you</i> fucked up.

Right now I'm in a level where I lose instantly if I'm detected.  This is my least favorite game mechanic.  Ever.

If you've been a Splinter Cell fanboy for a while, Conviction will probably feel like a "fresh" take on the series.  For me, and for anyone else who was hoping for a <i>better</i> game, it's a let-down.  I guess I was foolish to hope for anything different from Ubisoft.

<i>Progress: Infiltrating Third Echelon</i>