+++
date = "2007-09-09T19:39:14-07:00"
title = "Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition"
slug = "resident-evil-4-wii-edition-4"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition" ]
platform = [ "Wii" ]
rating = [ "Awesome" ]
+++

Wow, what a trip.  Every time I thought about making a follow-up entry on my experiences in RE4, I got sidetracked by what was going on in the game and just played it instead.  Starting up is a little rough - the first chapter is a real trial-by-fire, in some ways, e.g. ammo conservation, just as difficult as the late game.  But what it accomplishes is placing the player <i>firmly</i> into its world, and keeping them in it with a compelling plot and engaging gameplay.  Though the direction gets a little iffy toward the end (I was sure the game would end in Chapter 4, but a fifth one came out of nowhere), the survival thrill, strategic item management and upgrades, and shooting action are top notch.

What's more, completing the main game unlocks a ton of extras.  There's Professional Mode, the obligatory hard mode; new costumes for Leon and Ashley; Separate Ways, a (shorter) five-part sidestory; Assignment Ada, another short sidestory minigame; and Mercenaries, a four-stage, five-character minigame that simply challenges the player to kill as much as possible in a time limit.

Finishing the normal game and each of the sidestories also open up new weapons to purchase in a New Game Plus-esque manner, to spice up the game in subsequent playthroughs.  You keep your old weapons and items, with their existing upgrades, so it starts out easy this time - your primary goal being to gather money for an infinite-ammo rocket launcher, or an infinite-ammo machine gun.

Exemplary of the concept of immersion, RE4 is a real masterwork of game development, and the Wii version's aiming controls only serve to enhance that.  Especially if you haven't played it before, this one is highly recommended.

<i>Progress: Finished Normal, Separate Ways, Assignment Ada</i>