+++
date = "2007-09-01T20:41:26-07:00"
title = "Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition"
slug = "resident-evil-4-wii-edition-6"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition"]
platform = ["Wii"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Back when this game was new (on the {{% game "Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition" %}}Gamecube{{% /game %}}), I heard it was awesome and borrowed it from a friend of mine.  I couldn't even make it through the first ten minutes; those crazy Spaniards kicked my ass up and down the pueblo.  I concluded that, though it was easier than previous Resident Evils, it still wasn't easy enough for me.  So imagine my excitement when it was revealed that a Wii version was in the works, with point-and-shoot aiming that should be so easy, even a shooter simpleton - myself - should be able to handle it!

Well, I got to the part that kept killing me back in the Cube version, and, guess what, it kept killing me again.  But!  This time I felt more at ease retrying it, and eventually I cooked up a strategy that worked.  In general, I feel like the areas with a lot of not-zombies require several retries to perfect a battle plan, which seems non-ideal to me but at least the checkpoints are closeby.  Also, having just finished {{% game "Metroid Prime 3: Corruption" %}}Metroid{{% /game %}}, the lack of a sidestep/strafe is a real thorn in my side, but I'm starting to get accustomed to it.

So the game is still kicking my ass.  This time, though, I'm having fun with it.  Especially the <i>money</i> from killing, exploring, and selling extra goods.  I <i>love</i> money.

<i>Progress: Chapter 2-1</i>