+++
date = "2013-06-01T15:16:42-07:00"
title = "Monaco: What's Yours is Difficult To Distinguish From the Background"
slug = "monaco-whats-yours-is-difficult-to-distinguish-from-the-background"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Monaco: What's Yours Is Mine" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Meh" ]
+++

I've now been through three local multiplayer sessions of Monaco, and come to the conclusion that local multiplayer is the wrong way to play it.  Monaco has some really cool stuff going for it: a slick premise, an engaging art style, easy-to-grasp gameplay, and genuinely interesting character mechanics.  But there's a very significant problem at the point where these things converge -- it's not always obvious what a detail on the map is made of.  Being a stylized part of the floor, or a medium-height obstacle that doesn't obstruct line of sight, or a full-height wall that <i>does</i>, dramatically changes how you'll need to react to nearby guards and alarms.  And this problem is immensely exacerbated in local multiplayer, when the camera zooms out to show all the players at once, and details become even harder to see.

It's frustrating enough that, in any level of significant complexity, the game can really feel like it's fighting you the whole way.  But as I said, there are some really neat ideas underneath; so I'm not writing the game off yet.  I'll tackle this thing again, single-player, and see if I can't successfully sneak past the guards and steal all their monies.

<i>Progress: Almost (?) finished with the Locksmith's story.</i>