+++
date = "2013-06-06T02:14:03-07:00"
title = "More like, \"The Awkward-Conversation Dead\""
slug = "more-like-the-awkward-conversation-dead"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "The Walking Dead" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Bad" ]
+++

As with so many other cross-platform titles, the first thing I had to do was change the default resolution from 720p, to fit nicely with my monitor.  Somehow I ended up in a state where the settings menu stopped accepting input; I had to force-quit the game and restart.  This misfortune, as it turned out, would come to represent the rest of my experience with The Walking Dead: flawed, disappointing, ultimately functional, but frustrating to the point of intolerability.

For all the praise The Walking Dead (the game) gets for its writing, this generally didn't impress me.  To be more accurate, it wasn't necessarily the script, but the way the game put its lines together, often in ways that just didn't make sense.  For the vast majority of cases, my interactions with NPCs felt more like Mad Libs than actual conversations.  Yeah, this is the norm for games, but shouldn't it be <i>getting better</i>?  All it takes is some actual story QA -- shouldn't a studio like Telltale care about this exact thing?  And, at least to me, a lot of the voice acting also came across as poorly directed.

In said awkward conversations, The Walking Dead places a huge emphasis on the meaning of your dialog choices, and what consequences those choices may have later on.  It's a great system in theory, and seeing indicators like "NPC will remember this" have a pretty heavy impact.  But there's a core problem with this system, and it's the same one I hated in <game:Mass Effect>: often, your choices just suck.  It's unbearably frustrating to <i>want</i> to say something, something you feel is obvious and understandable, but not have any option resembling it.  Given that the whole theme of this zombie adventure is supposed to be real people in tough situations, this feeling - being unable to do what you think is right - can completely shatter the immersion.  Oh, and to boot, sometimes the choices presented to you don't actually match up with what you'll end up saying

Then there's the game's technical infirmity.  Although the graphical style makes the game appear nice in stills, character animations look janky and cheap, particularly since mouth movement rarely syncs up with the voice acting.  The game can chug in scenes of heavy camera movement, although this doesn't happen often.  And in addition to the settings hangup I mentioned before, I had the game crash on me during a particulary tense story moment.

But what I actually have the biggest problem with, is what The Walking Dead inherits from Telltale's adventure game pedigree: item hunting.  Twice in the two hours I spent with the game, I wandered aimlessly for a signicant time, because I simply wasn't clicking on the right thing.  It's an unpleasant reminder of hunting for pixels in old 2D adventure games, and comes across as totally inappropriate when you're in a desperate survival situation.  And, since the game is in 3D, there's also the added fun of whole swaths of the level being hidden to you if you haven't looked in the right direction.

The Walking Dead does some things right: there's a good amount of content, more than I'd expected for a single episode; the writing, at times, does succeed brilliantly at tugging heartstrings; and the action sequences, a hybrid of quick-time event and aiming, are genuinely entertaining.  But the good bits make up a minor fraction of the game overall (at least what I played of it), and so that amount of content really becomes a weakness.  The Walking Dead fails in so many ways, and particularly badly in some, that I just can't see it through.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Strong Bad's Cool Game for Attractive People Episode 1: Homestar Ruiner>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:The Secret of Monkey Island: Special Edition>  
<b>I mean, really</b>: I <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Walking_Dead_(video_game)#Accolades">don't understand this at all</a>.  I can name AAA <i>action</i> games with better storytelling than this guy (and not just <game:BioShock>, either).

<i>Progress: Gave up -- Finished Episode 1.</i>
