+++
date = "2013-06-12T00:22:01-07:00"
title = "DC Pretty-Good Heroes"
slug = "dc-pretty-good-heroes"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["LEGO Batman 2: DC Super Heroes"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

As Traveller's Tales' first open-world LEGO game, LEGO Batman 2 has its share of ingenuity, but also plenty of room for improvement -- especially when compared to {{% game "LEGO City Undercover" %}}later{{% /game %}} {{% game "LEGO The Lord of the Rings" %}}iterations{{% /game %}}.  There's a fair amount of diversity in hero selection, but not until the very end, when the Justice League actually shows up; the costume system grants access to some cool powers, but starts to stagnate mid-game.  Superman's (and later Green Lantern's and Wonder Woman's) flying power is cool in missions, but goddamn impossible to control effectively in open-world mode.  Actually, open-world transportation in general is pretty lacking, with a confusing map and difficult-to-find vehicle stations.  Missions are short, which is just as well because the story doesn't really have legs, centering on a fairly simple plot and underutilizing the DC hero/villain cast available to it.

It's fun, of course, particularly if you have a friend to play co-op with.  But open-world LEGO adventures have gotten better, and it shows.

<b>Better than</b>: my expectations of earlier LEGO games, I guess.  Hard to pick a good comparison.  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "LEGO City Undercover" %}}LEGO City Undercover{{% /game %}}, {{% game "LEGO The Lord of the Rings" %}}LEGO The Lord of the Rings{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Batman: Arkham Asylum" %}}Batman: Arkham Asylum{{% /game %}}  
<b>Now to wait for {{% game "LEGO Marvel Super Heroes" %}}LEGO Marvel Super Heroes{{% /game %}}</b>: hopefully they use a real story for that one.

<i>Progress: Finished the campaign, 17.7%.</i>