+++
date = "2013-06-18T23:24:34-07:00"
title = "Suddenly, Dysentery Doesn't Seem So Bad"
slug = "suddenly-dysentery-doesnt-seem-so-bad"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Organ Trail: Director's Cut"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

As a post-apocalyptic, zombie-filled send-up of {{% game "The Oregon Trail" %}}The Oregon Trail{{% /game %}}, Organ Trail has some really clever ideas: scavenging for supplies while shooting zombies, maintaining vital car parts, and keeping your party healthy as you travel across the U.S. to a safe haven (encountering hidden movie and TV references along the way).  As a game, it's slightly less successful, arguably doing too-good a job of emulating ancient computer games.  Poor luck can come in random, intense bursts; and some events, such as biker gang attacks, become extremely repetitive.  It doesn't help that the game is balanced such that, to keep a healthy amount of supplies, you'll need to do even <i>more</i> repetitive scavenging and questing.

But I have to give Organ Trail credit for a genuinely cool premise, and for at least one really neat mechanic, in the form of its pull-and-release shooting combat.  Even though it was clearly designed with mobile touchscreen gaming in mind, it works well enough with a mouse -- and confers an appropriately-hectic feeling in high-tension situations.  If there's anything that makes the one-to-two-hour trip worthwhile, it's that.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Majesty: The Fantasy Kingdom Sim" %}}Majesty: The Fantasy Kingdom Sim{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "Swords & Soldiers" %}}Swords & Soldiers{{% /game %}}  
<b>Extra-special props</b>: for the Breaking Bad reference in the Albuquerque portrait.  The game's art is light, but a really nice touch.

<i>Progress: Reached the Safe Haven on Easy.</i>
