+++
date = "2013-06-20T01:27:42-07:00"
title = "Stealth? Maybe -- Bastard? Definitely."
slug = "stealth-maybe-bastard-definitely"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Stealth Bastard Deluxe" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

As befits its subtitle, "Tactical Espionage Arsehole," Stealth Bastard is cheeky and charming in all the ways you'd want from an indie game.  But this wit isn't the game's strongest suit, nor is the simple control set, nor even the comforting hand-drawn graphics.  What Stealth Bastard does right is, somewhat counterintuitively, that it isn't really "about" stealth at all -- at least, not in the sense of a [Hitman](game:Hitman 2: Silent Assassin), or [Splinter Cell](game:Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Conviction), or [Metal Gear Solid](game:Metal Gear Solid: The Twin Snakes), or <game:Mark of the Ninja>.  Stealth Bastard actually has more in common with a platform-puzzler.

You'll run, duck, and jump around a level, pushing blocks, interacting with switches, and evading traps and alarms.  Figuring out how to make it through a level's obstacles is a big part of the game's challenge, but it tends to place greater emphasis on the execution of these plans, specifically in timing your moves just right.  Avoiding sudden death can be very difficult, which is why I'm grateful for the <game:VVVVVV>-esque checkpointing, ensuring that you never lose more than a few seconds of progress.  As frustrating as it can be to die over and over to a (bastard) kill-laser, being able to instantly try again staves off discouragement and tedium.

My one complaint so far is that, although there are some slightly-ominous hints in the first levels, Stealth Bastard's dark backstory isn't really developing, at least not yet.  The game's humorous style would really be more effective if there was some narrative material to work with.

<i>Progress: Finished Sector 2.</i>