+++
date = "2013-06-25T14:38:06-07:00"
title = "OU-maybe?"
slug = "ou-maybe"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
platform = ["Ouya"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

I've revisited my Ouya a couple times over the past few days, and have some additional (and amended) thoughts.

* The console is <b>not</b> as "dead silent" as I previously remarked; watching some movies on it, the fan did kick in after several minutes of continuous use.  It's certainly not louder than a current-gen system's fans or disc drive, but that the Ouya makes even this amount of noise is a bit of a let-down.  For media viewing purposes, there are <i>fanless</i> Android systems with enough horsepower to decode video, at roughly the same price point.
* A new system update hit yesterday, presumably to prepare for retail launch.  I haven't noticed many changes in the Discover or Play experiences, but the update does make it <b>more difficult</b> to use non-Ouya software -- a USB keyboard can no longer navigate the Make menu properly, so I need to use the controller to select the XBMC app, then switch to a keyboard to actually control it.
* On that note, an annoying quirk of the system is that when you turn it off from the menu - using the Power Off button/command - the system doesn't actually turn off; it only goes into a low-power mode.  This means that turning it "back on" is almost instantaneous, but also that you have to power-cycle the console to truly reset it.  Why would you need to reset it, you might ask?  Well, if you have a USB keyboard plugged in, then a wireless controller will sync up as Player 2 instead of 1, even after un-plugging the keyboard.

I also got to try some new, or perhaps just newly-featured, games.

<b>ShadowGun</b>: The tutorial leaves out key (and fortunately obvious) mechanics, the voice acting is fairly awful, entire words are missing from the in-game text, and the controls are generally bad, with no aim button, a dumb cover system, and a few obvious button-timing bugs.  But, ShadowGun is remarkable because it's a 3D Ouya game - or, to be more precise, Android/Tegra game - that actually <b>looks pretty good</b>.  Other developers should take note of <i>this</i>, not PC games from 2004 or slapdash iOS ports, as the graphical bar they should be aiming for.  And it's made in Unity3D, so, it's not like you have to make a huge engine investment to pull this off.

<b>TowerFall</b>: Solo, I can easily tell that this game is meant for more players.  And the controls are a little iffy (which may have more to do with controller latency than the game itself).  But this actually seems slightly promising as a {{% game "Super Smash Bros." %}}Super Smash Bros.{{% /game %}}-style party game.  If only I'd ordered three more controllers...

Summarily, I have less confidence in the system hardware/software quality than I once did, but more hope for its game library, which is really the important thing for Ouya.  Time will have to tell if these launch games are hints of a brighter future, or red herrings in a sea full of, uh ... garbage fish.