+++
date = "2013-06-25T15:43:38-07:00"
title = "I really don't understand the title, but the game is supercool."
slug = "i-really-dont-understand-the-title-but-the-game-is-supercool"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Closure" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

Closure has come a long way since the free/demo version however-many years ago, and it's in all the right ways.

Undoubtedly most important is the puzzle design, which - although I have a <i>lot</i> of the game left to explore - has done a really amazing job of gradually introducing puzzle concepts.  The core mechanic, where the world is non-interactive until lit up, remains constant; but every proceeding puzzle is designed with a new light-related object, or a new combinatory quirk, to make every challenge unique.  The puzzles are also atomic enough that, although it's possible to screw up and need to restart, you'll never lose more than a few seconds of progress.

The art style is also impressively complete, and cohesive.  In keeping with the game's light/dark theme, environments are steeped in twisted, dark architecture, and everything from the flickering lanterns to the player character's spidery legs oozes a sense of "creepy."  Comparisons to <game:Limbo> are unescapable, but fitting: take that game's stark, darkness-infused anxiety, combine it with the stylishness of <game:Insanely Twisted Shadow Planet>, and you'll have an idea of how slick Closure can be.  Not to mention a moody, yet energetic soundtrack.

So far, the puzzles are pretty simple, but in ways that still make me struggle to mentally overcome them.  And that's the real genius of the game, that the central light mechanic is such a radical departure from the norm, forcing you to laterally think about how ambient darkness can change the landscape.  Remember when you first learned how to [think with portals](game:Portal)?  Yeah, it's a little like that.  Pretty cool.

<i>Progress: Finished 9 hub-world puzzles.</i>