+++
date = "2013-06-26T14:50:27-07:00"
title = "Of course it has horse armor!"
slug = "of-course-it-has-horse-armor"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["DLC Quest"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

DLC Quest - plus its expansion campaign, Live Freemium or Die - isn't just a send-up of the modern game industry's predatory DLC practices.  Well, it's mostly that, but it also mixes in some pop- and game-culture humor.  Most of the shots it takes are easy ones: basic features as paid DLC, useless pre-order exclusive content, day-one bugfix patches, et al.  But the digs are plentiful, thanks to the endless amount of material this jackass industry puts out.

All the same, as welcome as this sense of humor is, the game itself gets a little tiring.  Even though it's 90 minutes or less, a considerable amount of that time is spent traveling back and forth between plot points and the DLC vendor.  The first time you run and jump through the environment, there are some simple platforming pleasures in exploring and collecting coins, but working through the same obstacles several times over wears thin.  Then again, it's hard to get too upset with the game, since it's so technologically simple.  (And also because it's only 90 minutes long.)

DLC Quest is a better joke on paper than it is in code, but it's not terrible.  For the dollars and minutes it costs, you can do worse.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Little Inferno>, <game:Eat Lead: The Return of Matt Hazard>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Far Cry 3: Blood Dragon>  
<b>THIRD POINT</b>: ALLAN PLEASE ADD POINT DESCRIPTION

<i>Progress: Finished both campaigns, collected all Awardments.</i>