+++
date = "2013-06-30T12:16:58-07:00"
title = "A Brief Explanation, Since There is No Time For a Longer One"
slug = "a-brief-explanation-since-there-is-no-time-for-a-longer-one"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["No Time to Explain"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

No Time to Explain perfectly sums itself up in <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oi_L6ZnAgzM">its introduction</a>: time travel, sci-fi weapons, egregious crab-violence, and <i>OH CHRIST MY RIBS ARE IN MY EYES!!</i>

The game's strong suit is its flippant approach to storytelling, be it in the opening levels' screaming guy, or the zany, cartoonish cinematics that follow.  It also has some pretty damn cool play mechanics, largely revolving around unique means of locomotion -- starting with a beam gun that propels you into the air.  Its slightly-masochistic levels will give you a workout as you learn to master those mechanics, while being friendly enough to provide convenient checkpointing, so you rarely have to hurdle the same obstacle twice.

Unfortunately, the hilarious story and clever mechanics are let down by some shoddy technology and a general lack of polish.  Misshapen hitboxes, getting stuck in the terrain, and weapon misfires are all present in fair quantities.  Even once you get the hang of beam-gun jumping, controlling it effectively can be immensely difficult, due to the way the viewport and targeting reticle move (or don't) together.  If you go backwards from a level checkpoint, you can actually lose progress.  And while the game is <i>usually</i> generous with retries, there are some exceptions in a couple of boss fights - <a href="http://www.pcgamer.com/review/no-time-to-explain-review/">forcing you to start over if you die</a> - that really break the game's flow.

As far as death-happy platformers go, No Time to Explain is the funniest, and one of the most creative I've seen, with a great visual style and soundtrack to boot.  But it's also one of the least polished, outside of Flash prototypes.  Luckily, if you're like me and gave up at the flammable stomach acid - or if you're just balking at the $10 price tag (which does seem a little steep) - you can <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oi_L6ZnAgzM&list=PLo_lDZnUwf2wiFb-Gxh3jaYiEVunB8HrL">watch the whole thing online</a>, and still enjoy the game's incredible, epic conclusion.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Super Meat Boy>, at least where it matters to me  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:VVVVVV>  
<b>Oh and</b>: there are <i>collectible hats</i>!

<i>Progress: Failed the stomach/diabetes level.</i>
