+++
date = "2013-06-30T17:55:11-07:00"
title = "Pretty sure it's at least slightly mechanical."
slug = "pretty-sure-its-at-least-slightly-mechanical"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Unmechanical"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

I tried the <a href="http://store.steampowered.com/app/211180/">demo</a> back when it came out, and Unmechanical seemed like a nice little bit of sidescroller puzzling.  The full game turns out to be a nice, little more of it.  About one to two hours more.  What I'm saying is, the game's short; but it's still nice.

If there's something in Unmechanical to complain about (well, other than its brevity) it's the game's pacing, which falters a few times.  The first two-thirds or so, your goal is finding keys to unlock a central, quasi-hub chamber, which you'll backtrack to (well, be guided back to) after collecting each key.  So it feels a bit awkward when there's a considerable amount of puzzle content <i>after</i> this chamber.  And there are a couple of times where, to solve a puzzle, you'll have to go back to the previous room - or skip ahead to the next room - to pick something up.

But these seem like minor complaints, when the game in general is a pleasant, stimulating-while-relaxing trip through an imaginative, well-detailed game world.  There's a great variety of puzzle types, all manipulated by a single control mechanic -- and only one or two of them require real-time action, so you can take as much time as you want.

Unmechanical isn't very complicated, but it doesn't need to be.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Quantum Conundrum>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Antichamber>  
<b>About as good as, while distinct from</b>: <game:Q.U.B.E.> -- <i>weird, no, it was not my intent to compare Unmechanical solely to other Unreal/UDK games.</i>

<i>Progress: Complete.</i>