+++
date = "2013-06-30T20:04:05-07:00"
title = "Something about, rushing too fast, and, lack of attention to detail.  Yeah."
slug = "something-about-rushing-too-fast-and-lack-of-attention-to-detail-yeah"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Oil Rush"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Bad"]
+++

I was immediately interested in Oil Rush's macro-management approach.  What turns me off of expert-level play in other strategy games (be it [StarCraft II](game:StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty) or [Civilization V](game:Sid Meier's Civilization V)) is the endless level of micro-management those games demand: tuning, and paying acute attention to, every individual element of your army/empire.  Oil Rush, through a combination of smart design inventions (like minimap-oriented controls!) and intuitive AI, obviates the need for most of these details, in favor of high-level "Send dudes here" commands.  So, yeah: I really liked this, at first.

But as it turns out, Oil Rush also <i>neglects</i> any kind of micro-management, to the gameplay's detriment.  You can only select units that are around/at a building; you can only select either 25\%, 50\%, or 100\% of those units at a time; and you can only order them to move to another building.  Want to send out a single unit to scout?  Nope.  Balance the number of units stationed at your bases?  Nope.  Redirect units en route to A, and send them to B instead?  You can <i>recall</i> them to where they came from, but otherwise -- nope!  Send units to unoccupied water to intercept enemy forces?  Move units to take proper advantage of attack range?  Focus fire?  Patrol, escort, or <i>stop</i>?  Nope on all counts.

I'm not going to even bother getting into the game's god-awful writing or lackluster art style, because they don't matter.  The game isn't - what I would consider - playable.

Much as I'll disparage Oil Rush, though, I have to give credit to its developers -- for making a <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unigine">cross-platform engine</a> with some relatively impressive capabilities.  Nice work on the tech, guys.  Shame about the game design.

<i>Progress: Finished "Wild West" (mission 3).</i>