+++
date = "2008-01-28T16:10:31-07:00"
title = "Drawn to Life"
slug = "drawn-to-life-3"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Drawn to Life"]
platform = ["DS"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

Some DigiPen students were involved in developing this game, so I felt a kind of obligation to try it out.  But I have to say that I feel really lukewarm toward it.  Technologically, it's pretty cool; but the gameplay isn't very fun.

Drawn to Life's claim to fame, so to speak, is the ability to draw your protagonist (among many other in-game objects) using the touchscreen as a painting tool.  It sure sounds cool to have your own creation moving around - and the animation is very well done, what with angled limbs and rotating joints - but in execution, the action of the game is just held up by having to draw the stuff in it.  I don't want to sit around sketching out a cool-looking hero; I just want to get to the game.

Unfortunately, this was a bad decision on my part.  Because now all the stuff in my game looks like shit, because I drew it like shit.  And I don't want to take the time to re-draw it because drawing is boring.  It's really a vicious cycle.

At the heart of it, though, the platforming is not that great.  While the drawing mechanic is pretty innovative, there's nothing creative about the game itself.  Run and jump.  Land on enemies.  Collect coins and key items.  Stand on moving platforms.  It's nothing you haven't seen before.

I feel like this game would be really good for the right person: for someone who's genuinely interested in drawing.  For me the action is ultimately underwhelming.  I'll put a bit more time into it, but at this point I don't really see myself finishing.

<i>Progress: Finished the third level, 100\% so far</i>