+++
date = "2009-09-30T22:12:57-07:00"
title = "Dead Space: Extraction"
slug = "dead-space-extraction-3"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Dead Space: Extraction" ]
platform = [ "Wii" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

[House of the Dead: Overkill](game:The House of the Dead: Overkill) felt just like an arcade rail shooter - fun, but not a standout, and largely forgettable.  <game:Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles>, from what I tried, had a pleasing amount of depth - but it still just felt "good for a rail shooter."  Contrarily, after Dead Space: Extraction's introductory chapter, I completely forgot that the game was on rails.

It's a well-paced adventure (so far, anyway), with action to spare and no shortage of collectible extras, like weapon upgrades!  The weapons are all great fun to use, and it helps that you never really have to worry about ammo.  Well, you will if you just waste it by shooting into the air all willy-nilly, I guess.

Graphics are good, voice acting is great, controls are great.  The one thing that seems <i>off</i> about Extraction is that even on the Hard difficulty setting, it isn't hard at all.  They may as well have changed its name to Normal (and Normal to Easy).

Oh, and <b>it probably isn't all that fun with only one player</b>.  Teamwork is actually an important facet of Extraction at times.  There are Wiimote puzzles where two players will take turns drawing a path - the other player fending off necromorphs in the meantime - that seem like they would be a drag playing by yourself.

<i>Progress: Chapter 6</i>