+++
date = "2009-09-27T12:17:11-07:00"
title = "Overlord"
slug = "overlord-5"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Overlord"]
platform = ["X360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

At first, I blamed most of my minion deaths on spotty micromanagement controls - but like <game:Pikmin>, as the game marched forward, it seemed dedicated to demonstrate my minions' frailty with monsters that could kill the entire squad at once.  Dwarves and masked raiders with firebombs that mass-murder from afar.  Flying eye demons that spawn enemies <i>ad infinitum</i>.  The game sends mixed messages: minions can grab new armor and weapons to become stronger, but they can die at the drop of a hat.  And I can sacrifice hundreds of them to power up my own equipment (the whole forge system seems poorly thought out).

I would still <i>really</i> like a map.  And the camera controls are, well, awful.

So the gameplay needs some tweaking and rebalancing, leading to some incredibly frustrating moments of powerlessness and sudden death.  Which is a shame - because the game world is really a joy to be in, and I love seeing these fantasy tropes turned on their head.  Being an evil overlord is <b>awesome</b>.

I've finished the main game, but I'm not done yet - there's a [downloadable expansion](game:Overlord: Raising Hell) yet to conquer!  Plus I'm already pretty much sold on [the sequel](game:Overlord II), I already <i>own</i> [the prequel](game:Overlord: Dark Legend), and the [DS spinoff](game:Overlord: Minions) intrigues me as well.

<i>Progress: Killed the wizard, 100% corruption!</i>