+++
date = "2009-09-08T23:37:02-07:00"
title = "Batman: Arkham Asylum"
slug = "batman-arkham-asylum-8"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Batman: Arkham Asylum"]
platform = ["Xbox 360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Yeah, this is pretty awesome.

Something that surprised me in the full game, that I didn't expect based on the demo, is the exploration aspect.  The game's environments are so heavily detailed and, well, <b>great looking</b>, that I'm always stopping to look around.  Also the Riddler has a ton of little puzzle-like challenges all throughout the game, so keeping an eye out for those is a ton of fun.  Topping off the game's map is Arkham Island itself, which isn't purely a <i>hub</i>, per se, but does function as a central, well-traveled part of the game.  I still have a lot to explore on the island, and I can't wait to get to it.

Another thing I didn't anticipate in Arkham Asylum is the depth of the upgrade system.  Batman gains experience for killer combos, stealth kills, and other cool stuff, and when he levels up, you can spend an upgrade point to enhance an ability - or activate an entirely new one.  Early in the game I picked up an explosive foam device; now with an upgrade, I can lay the foam down in a room, and it'll detonate automatically when someone walks by it.  <i>Sweet</i>.

With the exploration and the Riddler's puzzles, I'm playing the full game in a slower and more deliberate way than the demo, which I like.  But one of the really impressive design accomplishments of Arkham Asylum is that you can basically play it as fast or as slow as you want.  For a game that incorporates action, stealth, and puzzle elements, it's surprisingly malleable.

<i>Progress: 11\%</i>