+++
date = "2010-01-02T00:21:05-07:00"
title = "The World Ends with You"
slug = "the-world-ends-with-you-6"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["The World Ends with You"]
platform = ["DS"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

The story continues to be my primary motivation.  It's getting pretty interesting: convoluted enough to keep me guessing, but not so much as to be complete nonsense.  That is, aside from some metaphysical <i>deus ex machina</i>s, which I'm willing to give a pass, since the bizarre premise is one of the story's strengths.

As for the gameplay, I remain unimpressed.  Well, maybe that's not the right word; I <i>am</i> impressed by the breadth and complexity of the battle system, but that doesn't make it fun for me.  I had to drop my last boss fight down to Easy difficulty - at which point, it was <i>quite</i> easy - in order to win.  And actually, I think I have more fun with it when there's less pressure, and I can just play around with my different abilities.

I'm willing to admit that I'm <b>not good enough</b> to master this battle system, and I am <i>un</i>willing to seriously dedicate myself to it.  If I can finish the game by dropping to Easy when necessary, I'm fine with that, even though I know I'm blithely ignoring some deeper combat mechanics.  Frankly, I don't have the patience to learn the "Stride Cross" system inside and out, so I am grateful to the game for accommodating me regardless.

As the days wear on, missions entail more and more running around Shibuya; I'm learning the map a little better, but having to go on wild goose chases is still a drag.  And I am still confused by, and indifferent toward, the item and brand system.  Nevertheless, plot twists and genuine curiosity drive me to unravel the mysteries of the Game, and of Neku.

<i>Progress: Day 16</i>