+++
date = "2010-01-29T00:37:37-07:00"
title = "No More Heroes 2: Desperate Struggle"
slug = "no-more-heroes-2-desperate-struggle-5"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "No More Heroes 2: Desperate Struggle" ]
platform = [ "Wii" ]
rating = [ "Awesome" ]
+++

My grievances so far:

- Part of the charm of <game:No More Heroes> was that it was entirely fresh and new.  Inevitably, an iterative sequel loses that feeling.  There is no way this could have been avoided, but, I wanted to mention it.

- There are fewer side-missions involving wanton killing, and they are not repeatable.  The new NES-style jobs are way better than the ones from the first game - you'll actually want to replay these! - but I do miss endlessly-repeatable murdering.

- The game sets you up to believe that you may be killing <b>51</b> assassins.  This, in fact, is the game pulling a "Suda" on you.  Swaths of the chart are skipped, in one form or another.  There are still considerably more fights than in the original, but! just don't get your hopes up for <i>fifty</i> of them.  It's only one game disc.

- I really, really want this game to be in high-definition.  The visual style is amazing.  At a higher resolution, I imagine it would be absolutely incredible.

- Compared to the first game's assassins, I feel like this one's are more interesting, but less verbose - they frequently leave me wanting more.  I guess, really, this isn't much of a grievance.

- There is a level where you can jump, and it shows how terrible the camera can be during rapid movement.

- I miss <a href="http://nomoreheroes.wikia.com/wiki/Holly_Summers">Holly Summers</a>.

But these are all minor nitpicks, relative to the <i>good</i> in Desperate Struggle.  In so many words, it takes what was good about <game:No More Heroes>, removes most of what was not-so-good, and adds even <i>more</i> good.

What I'm saying is, this game is really good.

<i>Progress: Rank 4</i>