+++
date = "2010-01-31T17:08:37-07:00"
title = "God of War II"
slug = "god-of-war-ii-2"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["God of War II"]
platform = ["PS2"]
+++

With {{% game "God of War III" %}}God of War III{{% /game %}}'s hype train about to arrive at the station, I still haven't taken sides: do I think the series is improving over time, or that it peaked in the {{% game "God of War" %}}first installment{{% /game %}}?  Well, I had to play the second game to find out - and an hour or two in, I'm of the opinion that I really don't care.

God of War II didn't take long to remind me of what I liked and didn't like about the original.  The cinematic presentation, while sometimes a little cheesy (taking liberties with Greek mythology will do that), is overall awe-inspiring and impressive - both in story sequences and in gameplay.  And the puzzles, when they arise, are surprisingly stimulating and satisfying.  But platforming actions are dreadful: having to do precise jumps with a cinematic camera is stupid.  The combat can get pretty boring.  And quick-time events are more frustrating than fun.

I enjoyed most of my time with the {{% game "God of War" %}}first game{{% /game %}} back in 20-aught-7.  But now, three years on, the God of War kill-em-up formula has been {{% game "Golden Axe: Beast Rider" %}}done{{% /game %}} {{% game "Conan (2007)" %}}to{{% /game %}} {{% game "Brütal Legend" %}}death{{% /game %}} and I am absolutely tired of it.  So while I am interested in the plot and puzzles, and wowed by the presentation, God of War II's <b>core</b> gameplay - painting the floor with soldier/demon blood - is a real turn-off.  Seeing as this dominates the running time of the game, it's difficult for me to stay motivated.

I've resolved to simply watch other people play the game on YouTube.  And, I'll probably do the same for the third game.

Meh.

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- Got to the Titan Cave</i>
