+++
date = "2010-01-01T17:49:03-07:00"
title = "Mass Effect"
slug = "mass-effect-7"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Mass Effect" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

There are a number of things I don't like about Mass Effect; things which I will go on to describe in excruciating detail.  There are also some things I really <i>do</i> like about Mass Effect, that managed to make my experience, on the whole, fun.  Now that the ride is over, I'm left wanting a little more - not enough to bother playing through again, but enough to plan on picking up the sequel ... once it's on sale.

As I mentioned before, one serious misgiving I have against the game is its paper-thin facade of "real" control over Commander Shepard.  I started the game by customizing my character's backstory, personality, and appearance; giving me considerable freedom into making Shepard whatever I wanted to be.  But this freedom was rapidly dissolved by laughable dialog options.  Often, all the choices given to me were actually the same thing.  Frequently, a choice's summary caption didn't sync up with the actual dialog it triggered.  And, more than a handful of times, my choices weren't even close to what I <b>really</b> wanted to say.

Given the initial customizability, I thought I would be able to use dialog to shape my character's persona, and really put the R in RPG.  But the conversation system's limited options made it more a tool to <b>squeeze NPCs</b> for information or for results.  Which is fine, I guess; it's in line with traditions that've served the genre well.  I just feel let down by the ultimate lack of meaning and depth attached to a feature that so <i>dominates</i> the game.  My save file tells me I finished the game in just under 18 hours (having done very few sidequests), and I'd estimate that NPC conversations accounted for as much as six of those hours.

Another several hours, maybe two or even three, I spent just reading the game's background literature.  Every time I encountered a location, species, technology, historical reference, or any other form of information, the game added an entry on it to my in-game Codex.  These entries flesh out a staggering amount of plot regarding the Mass Effect universe; and as a sci-fi nerd, I was all too happy to read it.  But I was repeatedly struck by how <i>Roddenberrian</i> it seemed.  Alien species are largely characterized by aggressiveness.  Despite having a standard galactic language, many spacefaring humans retain regional accents (e.g. French).  And why are so many races physiologically similar to humans?  (Or more precisely, why does no one ever wonder about this?)  There are a bunch more similarities I won't go into, as they spoil the game's story, which is not terrible; but suffice to say, when I encountered these elements, I immediately thought "Oh, just like Star Trek."

As with the conversation system, this isn't necessarily a bad thing - Mass Effect's background fiction does its job, and does it adequately.  But again, I am disappointed insomuch as this brave journey into interstellar space feels so <i>familiar</i>.

And speaking of that interstellar space, in line with the illusory freedom of character development, the architecture of the explorable galaxy is a bit misleading.  There are a number of star clusters, systems, and planets to go to on the galaxy map - but most of them are nothing more than a descriptive paragraph.  A large number of the remainders are only good for surveying, e.g. clicking a button from orbit, for a sidequest.  There are few to actually land on, and even fewer with content of real significance.

Realistically, it is unfair to expect the tremendous effort of explorable terrain and features on planets that aren't relevant to the game's campaign.  But the impression is bothersome: here is a galaxy of locations, here are the important ones, don't bother going anywhere else.  It occurred to me that this isn't altogether different from <game:The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker>'s islands, many empty, and few with actual life; but in Wind Waker, Link actually sails the sea, sights land on the horizon, lands on shore.  In Mass Effect, Shepard selects the destination from a menu-map.  There is no sense of exploration, and so there's no redeeming value in uninteresting planets.

There are other, more minor complaints I have about Mass Effect's internal mechanics.  Good armor seems incredibly rare.  The 150 item limit, counting all types of equipment, makes it difficult to keep backup squad members well-equipped (not to mention, changing inactive squadmates' gear is only possible when it's absolutely not necessary).  Some enemy encounters are surprisingly tough, and the autosave system occasionally falters; I learned quickly to make frequent quick-saves.  The Mako driving controls are a touch wonky, and sometimes get in the way.  Most of the music is extremely forgettable.  And, supposing I wanted to go back and try to accomplish some of Mass Effect's numerous side-quests, I <i>can't</i>, because my game is saved past a point of no return.

In general, I would say my "problem" with Mass Effect is that it proposes considerable freedoms to the player, and fails to deliver on almost all of them.

<b>BUT!</b>

I still <i>like</i> Mass Effect.  As I did with <game:Assassin's Creed>, in spite of being disappointed by the game's loftier ambitions, I found the basic gameplay fun, and entertaining.  Running and gunning with some RPG slants was <i>interesting</i>, and sometimes even exhilirating.  I was pleased with the variety offered by vehicle segments, on-foot shooting, and on-foot investigation.  And NPC conversations, although not giving me all the leeway I wanted, do show an incredibly intricate game world, with excellent voice acting.

So while Mass Effect wasn't everything I wanted to be, it was engaging enough that I wasn't able to put the game down until I'd finished it.  Which is pretty good, all things considered.

I'm more than satisfied - happy, even - with what Mass Effect did <b>right</b>.  As with Assassin's Creed, I'm all for the sequel, in the hopes that it addresses my complaints.  And even if it doesn't, I'm pretty confident I'll be able to wring some fun out of it.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Final Fantasy XII>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Borderlands>  
<b>My Shepard banged</b>: The alien chick

<i>Progress: Finished the story</i>