+++
date = "2010-01-10T19:12:50-07:00"
title = "Red Faction: Guerrilla - Demons of the Badlands"
slug = "red-faction-guerrilla-demons-of-the-badlands-2"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Red Faction: Guerrilla - Demons of the Badlands"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

Demons of the Badlands is - well.  It's typical to expect "more of the same" from [downloadable campaign content](game:Overlord: Raising Hell), but I can only really describe this pack as <b><i>less</i> of the same</b>.

It excises the concept of salvage, which <game:Red Faction: Guerrilla> used as a currency reward for destruction, opting instead to unlock items based purely on how many missions you complete.  And the mission types I really liked (assaulting and protecting areas, using mechs to destroy EDF stuff, rail-shooting segments with a rocket launcher) barely exist, here; most of the <s>Guerrilla</s> Marauder missions are retrieving vehicles, or destruction puzzles, which are ... fine, but not my favorites.

Furthermore, the entire thing only has three story missions, and you'll need to destroy most of the EDF property in the sector in order to unlock the final one.  So by the end - two, maybe three hours, tops - there's almost nothing left to do, anyway.

Demons of the Badlands is simple, destructive fun; but it lacks the variety, the scope, and the satisfaction of any one of the original campaign's sectors.  As much as I liked the core game, this DLC pack is entirely skippable.

I'm glad it came free with the PC version, because if I paid for this, I might be harsher on it.

<b>Better than</b>: <a href="http://www.joystiq.com/2006/04/03/download-oblivions-horse-armor-for-a-price/">horse armor</a>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Overlord: Raising Hell>  
<b>Red Faction's story sucks</b>: so a prequel is kind of stupid

<i>Progress: Finished the story missions</i>