+++
date = "2010-01-11T21:17:23-07:00"
title = "Red Faction: Guerrilla"
slug = "red-faction-guerrilla-10"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Red Faction: Guerrilla" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Awesome" ]
+++

During my previously-glogged playthrough of Red Faction: Guerrilla, I had my graphics settings near (but not <i>at</i>) their highest.  I thought the game looked great, but could run better in certain circumstances - especially during occasions of heavy on-screen activity.  Well, I just plugged in a new graphics card, and turned the graphics all the way up, after which, the game had a periodic stutter making it mostly unplayable.

The Internet suggested that I turn off Ambient Occlusion, so I did that, and <b>now it runs too fast</b>.  Not just fast enough to make me think it was slow, before; fast enough to be <i>unreasonably fast</i>.  In fact, this'll happen if I lower any graphics settings at all.  It seems like the game just isn't designed to throttle itself correctly.

This is apparently a <a href="http://forums.steampowered.com/forums/showthread.php?t=1089346">known issue</a> running RF:G (and <game:Saints Row 2>?) in Win7, and Volition has no intention of fixing it.  Thanks, assholes.

I also had a ton of difficulty getting the game to run in the first place - there is a whole rigamarole to go through in <a href="http://forums.steampowered.com/forums/showthread.php?t=1087130">applying a patch</a>, thanks to Games for Windows LIVE - but I was willing to write that off as a fluke.  I guess the [free DLC](game:Red Faction: Guerrilla - Demons of the Badlands) was to make up for not doing due diligence in debugging the PC version.

It's a shame to say, because the game is <b>stupid fun</b> and plays great with a mouse, but maybe you are better off with a console version.

<i>Progress: Liberated Mars</i>