+++
date = "2010-01-09T17:50:24-07:00"
title = "Red Faction: Guerrilla"
slug = "red-faction-guerrilla-12"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Red Faction: Guerrilla" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Awesome" ]
+++

There are some features of Red Faction: Guerrilla that make for easy comparison with other recent games.  Guerrilla missions, for instance, are functionally similar to recon missions in <game:Assassin's Creed> - the difference being that Red Faction has a lot of mission types, almost all of which are <b>fun</b>.  And the free-roaming nature of collecting salvage to upgrade is not unlike <game:Crackdown>'s power-up orbs, although Alec Mason is upgraded more through his weapons than through his personal attributes.  (Also, <a href="http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0566332/">Michael McConnohie</a> is the voice of your commander in both Crackdown and RF:G.  Interesting!)

Red Faction may share ideas with some other sandbox titles, but the <i>amount of fun</i> I'm having is difficult to compare to.  It's rare to find a game where failure is enjoyable, but when I fail a mission in Red Faction, I am almost invariably looking forward to trying it again.  It really nails the simple pleasures of destroying things.

Back when RF:G was new, there was a popular critical opinion that the default game difficulty was too high, and that <i>optimal</i> fun could be <a href="http://www.wired.com/gamelife/2009/06/red-faction/">found in Easy</a>.  Not to toot my own horn, but I'm having no qualms about Normal.  Recently I had been feeling pretty fragile in the game's tougher firefights; and then, a new armor upgrade opened up.  Of course, death is expected, and in certain missions, frequent - but like I said, I still have fun doing these missions the umpteenth time.  I'm not opposed to the idea of [switching to Easy](game:The World Ends with You) to find fun in a difficult game.  I'm just saying, for Red Faction, I don't see this as significant.

As for the narrative, it's showing some signs of, uh, trying to do something; I'm still not impressed.  There are these Marauders, basically Mad Max rejects wandering out in the Martian desert, who appear to just be hyperviolent savages but may hint at a deeper secret.  All I know is, beating them to death with my sledgehammer is great fun.

<i>Progress: Liberated Badlands sector</i>