+++
date = "2010-01-30T14:38:18-07:00"
title = "No More Heroes 2: Desperate Struggle"
slug = "no-more-heroes-2-desperate-struggle-6"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "No More Heroes 2: Desperate Struggle" ]
platform = [ "Wii" ]
rating = [ "Awesome" ]
+++

The final boss fight was a bit frustrating for a few reasons, and the ending was a little short on closure.  But, I'm over it.  As for the endgame?  Other than a higher difficulty mode (in which the <i>tutorial boss</i> very nearly murdered me), I haven't found anything yet, although I'm hopeful that there are some hidden unlocks still waiting to be revealed.

Basically, Desperate Struggle takes <game:No More Heroes> and removes the following:

* Free-roaming overworld
* 3D minigames
* Repeatable side-jobs where you slaughter chumps

Then <i>adds</i>:

* More fights
* Cooler beam swords
* 2D NES-style minigames
* Two missions where you play as Shinobu
* A fight where you play as Henry
* Hilarious breast physics
* <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mzqWytLJHdU">Tiger mode</a>
* <s>An astronaut</s> A <b>cosmo</b>naut

NMH2 does not have the shock value that NMH did, because it mostly treads the same ground (mechanically, anyway; the first game did not have any <s>astronauts</s> <b>cosmo</b>nauts).  But while it may not be a wholly <i>new</i> experience, it is much more <i>refined</i>; especially as regards the side jobs, which have become fun enough to rival the fighting part of the game.  The sequel's highs are not much higher than the original's, but the lows have been addressed with a vengeance.

If Quentin Tarantino ever made a Pulp Fiction 2, I bet it would turn out something like this.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:No More Heroes>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Super Mario Galaxy>?  I can't think of a better game like it  
<b>There is a new girl like Holly Summers</b>: her name is Alice, and she is pretty

<i>Progress: Finished on Mild</i>