+++
date = "2010-01-24T19:16:51-07:00"
title = "The Conduit"
slug = "the-conduit-6"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["The Conduit"]
platform = ["Wii"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

The controls are, yes, certainly good.  It took me a bit to get back in the hang of Wii-FPSing, but the customizable sensitivity and dead zone and everything  helped out.  (Although to be honest, I ended up going mostly with defaults, because it's easy to screw up the settings.)

Other than that, though, The Conduit doesn't really have ... <i>anything</i> going for it.  The story is hackneyed and poorly written.  The level design is generally uninspired.  The All-Seeing Eye, the game's "gimmick" as it were, is more annoying than fascinating; having to stop to set off invisible mines, and search around a room for hidden locks, really slows the game down.

The shooting is good, but not great - there's plenty of variety in the weapons, although a lot of them are basically useless for one reason or another (there's a handgun that one-shot kills almost anything, but it can only carry 16 bullets!).  Though there are a lot of kinds of enemies, almost all of the baddies I've encountered have been humans or human-sized aliens.  With the exception of these little red suicidal-exploding fuckers, who are responsible for about 90% of my deaths.

Also, I'm almost certain that the enemy sound effects are direct rips from {{% game "Halo: Combat Evolved" %}}Halo{{% /game %}}.

It's pretty short - I'm over halfway through in one sitting - but that's probably a good thing.  The mechanics are solid, but by and large the game just comes across as bland.

<i>Progress: Mission 6</i>