+++
date = "2011-08-01T01:21:39-07:00"
title = "Diablo III"
slug = "diablo-iii-11"
category = [ "Looking Forward To It" ]
game = [ "Diablo III" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
+++

<a href="http://www.joystiq.com/2011/08/01/diablo-3-beta-preview/">No talent trees</a>?  Interesting.  A fucking <i>zombie meteor</i> falling on Tristram?  <i>Awesome</i>.  A <a href="http://www.joystiq.com/2011/08/01/diablo-3-to-feature-player-to-player-real-money-auction-house-fo/">real-money player economy</a>-- what?  Just... <i>what</i>?  I get the "players are doing this on eBay anyway" argument, but clearly it existing, and it being endorsed by and fully integrated into the game, are two very different things.

On the one hand, I could never imagine myself buying an item with real money.  In a game like Diablo, <i>using</i> a new item is fun for maybe two seconds, tops.  The fun of the game is in <i>finding</i> or <i>earning</i> the item.  If you buy a Diablo item, what are you going to do with it?  Bring your shiny new purchased item on a group run to one-up your friends?  Go out and PvP chumps with it?  Watch your character portrait hold it?  Doing any of these things makes you a <b>douchebag</b>.

On the other hand, there <i>are</i> a lot of douchebags on the interweb, so <i>selling</i> items for real money might be a real thing for real players -- but given that item farmers will certainly drive the real-money economy directly into the ground within days of the game's release, I doubt that anyone else will have enough wastable time to get anything more than a lottery-ticket equivalent out of it.

So again, I must ask: <i>what</i>?  If I had any interest in playing in random online games, this would have destroyed it, since it sounds, at best, like an in-game feature to empower random douchebags.