+++
date = "2014-08-11T23:24:34-07:00"
title = "Was this developed in an ancient desert?"
slug = "was-this-developed-in-an-ancient-desert"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Legends of Persia"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Awful"]
+++

I'm no stranger to abandoning games after only a few minutes -- but this might be the first time I'm prepared to pass full judgment on one so soon.  Allow me to tell my own "legend" of Legends of Persia.

* The name of the game is "Legends of Persia," plural.  This is what it says on the <a href="http://store.steampowered.com/app/301220/">Steam store page</a>.  This is what it says on the out-of-game <i>settings</i> window.  And yet the title cinematic says "Legend of Persia."  Singular.  The title is, like, <b>the one thing</b> you can't get wrong about your own game.
* The title screen music is SNES-quality.  MIDI.  Huh.
* The settings screen has a "Defualt" (sic) button.
* The first several minutes of the game are hand-drawn, monochrome cutscene.  The art style actually isn't bad!  But the narration doesn't match up with the subtitles.  That is, the subtitles move faster than the narration does.  Significantly faster.
* The game pauses on a black screen for way too long.  It seems like it's loading.  (Maybe someone <i>forgot</i> to trigger the "Loading" screen?)  But it takes a long time - much longer than I'd expect, given how completely my system specs dominate the recommended ones - and nothing appears to be happening.
* Now, there are more cutscenes.  There is no narration.  The subtitles are ... slow, somehow.  And are cut off mid-sentence.  Seriously, the sentence never finished.
* More loading(?), more botched cutscene.  Finally the game loads up.  I check the task manager to see if something is going crazy.  No outlandish CPU usage, but the game is using more than half a gig of RAM.  On what?  Hmm?  Has it loaded the entire map into memory at once?  Whatever.
* I finally get to moving my character -- walk into an NPC, how do I interact with it?  Wait, fade to black, something's happening...
* Another cutscene.  There is no subtitle.  No voice.  What is this?  <i>What is happening?</i>
* Now items have appeared on the ground.  I picked one of them up by walking over it.  The other one isn't getting picked up.  (Why?)  It looks like I can equip this on my inventory screen, and, how do I use it?  No idea.
* I open the menu and click on the exit button.  Nothing happens.  I click it aga-- oh, okay.  It was just slowly transitioning out of the game.  I can continue clicking on the UI while this happens.  That's a pretty bad omen.
* Hey, I think I just saw a frame of the credits screen while the menu was loading in.  Like, it was already loaded in and ready to display, for no reason.  Uhh...

My glimpse of the actual gameplay was unflattering anyway, but that's hardly the point.  This is technological garbage.  It shouldn't be acceptable to release something in this state.

I'm just glad I didn't pay for this explicitly (it was on the same <a href="http://www.humblebundle.com">Humble Bundle</a> tier as something I actually wanted).

<i>Progress: None.</i>