+++
date = "2014-08-12T17:30:21-07:00"
title = "Spartan"
slug = "spartan"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Halo: Spartan Assault"]
platform = ["PC"]
+++

What surprised me about Halo: Spartan Assault wasn't -- you know, that it isn't a {{% game "Halo: Combat Evolved" %}}Halo{{% /game %}} game, really, at all.  That much I knew going in: that this is a twin-stick shooter set in the Halo universe.  No, what surprised me was that the gameplay is pretty <i>bare</i>.

Spartan Assault emulates the weapons and grenades of a first-person Halo game, but the top-down perspective removes any sense of verticality, and the zoomed-out perspective minimizes battle tension.  Again, it's no surprise that this isn't much like other Halos, but what's surprising is that Spartan Assault doesn't bring anything <i>new</i> to the table to replace these legacy features.  The gameplay just feels insufficient.

Also, the levels are short.  I only did a couple, but evidently they're all just a few minutes long.  The game's "story" is told exclusively inbetween mission sets - that is, not even inbetween <i>each</i> mission - and isn't very interesting anyway, just recounting some rote-sounding human-on-covenant conflict.  Not a lot going on.

I didn't remember, until I'd stopped playing, that Halo: Spartan Assault had started out as a mobile (Windows Phone) game; the high-fidelity graphics are a good distraction from that.  But the game's overall lack of depth makes perfect sense in that context.  Despite its relatively-high production values, Spartan Assault as a whole comes across as too shallow to be a "real" video game.

<i>Progress: Finished level A-2.</i>