+++
date = "2014-08-18T19:45:49-07:00"
title = "Space Diablo (Spiablo?)"
slug = "space-diablo-spiablo"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Drox Operative" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
+++

Drox Operative is ... <i>not</i> what I expected.

What I expected, I guess, was an [Escape Velocity](game:Escape Velocity Nova)-like trek across a galaxy, with trading, ship upgrades, divergent campaigns, et cetera.  And there are similarities, certainly: it's in <i>space</i>, there are some Newtonian physics, there are lasers, planetary communications grant quests -- but the core concepts of Drox Operative seem to be informed by a number of other, different genres.  The realtime gameplay, for one, most closely resembles <game:Diablo>, with random drops and equipment slots featuring pretty heavily.  The randomly-generated game universe invokes a sense of <game:Terraria>, and the diplomacy and war options are reminiscent of [Civilization](game:Sid Meier's Civilization V) or other similarly-sophisticated 4X-es.  Point being, Drox Operative shows a fairly diverse set of inspirations, and some pretty lofty aspirations for itself.

Unfortunately, in combining all of these disparate mechanics, the game suffers from a serious lack of focus.  Like a Civ match, there are multiple different ways to "win" the game, but each objective is so complicated and nuanced - involving intergalactic politics, experience levels, ship upgrades, equipment slots, named enemies, travel quests... yikes.  While I'm normally a fan of [dense](game:Saints Row IV) [open](game:Grand Theft Auto V) [worlds](game:The Saboteur), the elements littering Drox Operative's universe don't seem to have any intermediate purpose, other than more breadcrumbs leading to a victory condition.  I don't know -- in the absence of a tightly-scripted campaign or questline, I just didn't feel interested in stumbling randomly around the universe looking for things to do.

And the learning curve is a tough sell.  It took me long enough just to get the hang of the twin-stick and dungeon-clicker hybrid combat system.  And I'm still nowhere near being able to understand the differences between the in-game races, which are a Dungeons & Dragons-like cloud of wacky statistical attributes and abilities.

I admire the hell out of Drox Operative for its ambitious design and marriage of varied game elements.  But it's <b>hard to play</b>, and the moment-to-moment gameplay doesn't feel rewarding enough for the amount of effort it asks.