+++
date = "2014-08-19T23:23:40-07:00"
title = "Time-traveling lasers!"
slug = "time-traveling-lasers"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Gateways"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Puzzle complexity continues to ramp up all the way to the end, with a final puzzle that demands mastery over the game's most advanced mechanics, in simultaneous combination.  That's one "problem" with Gateways -- it's reliant on gameplay skills that it isn't very helpful in building up.  Where a smoothly-polished game design would evolve these mechanics gradually and iteratively, training the player almost by accident, Gateways isn't shy about throwing up walls and walking away.  (... I guess, to be fair, there are unlockable in-game hints, but I actively avoided them in order to think through puzzles on my own.  Although I wish that some hints were available for the last puzzle, which was a real bear.)

I call this a "problem," using under-emphatic quotation marks, because this sense of overwhelming challenge does lend a certain character to the game.  But the <i>real</i> problem with Gateways is that, outside of the puzzle designs, the platforming gameplay that ties puzzles together just isn't very well-implemented.  As testing as it was to understand and mentally solve a puzzle, I had even more difficulty just wrangling the game into executing my solution, without falling off of inopportune ledges and totally screwing up strict timing and/or positioning.  It's just so <b>frustrating</b> having to re-attempt a puzzle over and over, not because the solution was no good, but because of an awkward landing after a jump.

As for the game's other qualifications, the graphics and soundtrack are adequate but mediocre; there's no story except a total throwaway ending; and the game is technologically a mixed bag, with impressive portal rendering but a raft of seemingly-random infirmities (like what happened when I tried to change the resolution, which was, uh, nothing).  Really, Gateways could be summed up as: great puzzles, mediocre everything else.  But for players who like creative puzzles, it's worth tolerating the rest of the game for them.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Magrunner: Dark Pulse>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Portal>, <game:Braid>  
<b>Seriously, there's something sadistic</b>: about <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cj5VttL4f1E">posting the solution</a> to the final puzzle in <i>Hard</i> mode, which is unrelated to the same puzzle in <i>Normal</i> mode.

<i>Progress: 100\% on Normal.</i>