+++
date = "2014-08-20T22:36:46-07:00"
title = "&lt;INCOMPREHENSIBLE ROBOT SOUNDS&gt;"
slug = "incomprehensible-robot-sounds"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Sine Mora" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

Sine Mora is a tough nut to crack.  For starters, there's the name.  It's Latin.  The game was developed in Japan, and has voice-overs in ... <i>Hungarian</i>, but the title is Latin.  Why not.

The storyline is also pretty hard to parse: not only because of its drip-fed explanations of the central war and its related factions, but also because it involves <b>time travel</b>, and is told in a mismatched, <i>Pulp Fiction</i> style.  Or perhaps more accurately, a <i>Memento</i> style, since different parties know different things at different times, and since it deliberately plays with and defies the viewer's expectations at practically every turn.  These vague hints and out-of-order events never really make any cohesive sense until the very end of the campaign.

Even the gameplay is a little perplexing, although it's rooted in simple schmup mechanics.  Special weapons have bizarre and varying effects, depending on the specific mission.  In-game time can be slowed with a collectible powerup, enabling easier attacks and dodges, but an on-screen timer continues counting down at a normal pace -- and depletes when hits are taken, acting as a life bar of sorts.  And there are "permanent" weapon upgrade pickups, carrying over into subsequent missions, but these are reset to zero if otherwise-meaningless "continues" are used up.  While the time-limit mechanic is much more forgiving than a traditional shoot-em-up, the use of continues is just ... weirdly anachronistic.

But Sine Mora's confusing elements add up to something surprisingly enthralling.  Its core shooting gameplay is fun, with well-designed encounters and legitimately impressive boss fights.  And the arcane premise and storytelling lend an air of mystery to the campaign as it progresses.  Like a <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9bZkp7q19f0">catchy K-pop song</a>, being unable to understand it doesn't necessarily diminish how <i>fun</i> it is.

It helps that the game is absolutely gorgeous to look at, and that the camera-work in scripted fly-by sequences makes for some of the most beautiful vistas in modern gaming.  (Actually, this sometimes works to the game's detriment, when the ship starts blending in with a colorful and varied backdrop.  But on the whole, it's just really, incredibly good-looking.)

Sine Mora is a <i>different</i> sort of schmup.  It's very forgiving to imperfections, it has a thoroughly-written story, and there are time-traveling animals flying amphibious airplanes.  The game is about as outside-the-box as it can be, while still fulfilling the common requirements of a scrolling shooter.  The result is a game that isn't exactly revolutionary, but is pleasantly accommodating, and undeniably fresh and unique.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Ikaruga>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: ... actually, I don't really have any better schmups to compare against.  
<b>And there are flashes of self-awareness, too</b>: as in the fight against a boss named "SSOB PU DEKCUF."

<i>Progress: Finished on Normal (mostly rank 'E').</i>