+++
date = "2014-08-30T16:03:14-07:00"
title = "The Ol' Switcheroo"
slug = "the-ol-switcheroo"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "The Swapper" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

The Swapper combines a number of different design approaches into one game, although the <i>count</i> of those different things is ... actually a little hard to nail down.

The first, for sure, is a platform-puzzle game.  Using the eponymous swapper device, the player can create clones, and switch consciousness (control) into them at will.  But there are obstacles that block certain swapping functions, either clone-creation, or brain-swapping, or both; and there are more tangible, physical obstacles as well, such as large drops which will kill a clone (or the player).  These clone-and-swap-and-move puzzles started out easy enough, but became fiendishly difficult at times, really testing my lateral thinking ability.  Much to my shame, I even had to <a href="http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=149937488">research</a> a few solutions, after staring at some puzzles for minutes at a time.  Nevertheless, The Swapper's puzzles feel very satisfying, and never unfair.

As for other design archetypes implemented by The Swapper?  They might include the "<game:Metroid>-[vania](game:Castlevania: Symphony of the Night)," as it involves a large, contiguous map of interconnected rooms; but The Swapper lacks meaningful upgrades to wall sections off (progress is gated by generic orbs earned from completing puzzles), and there's no reason to backtrack except when intentionally skipping a puzzle.  There are also shades of an atmosphere-driven adventure, like <game:Limbo> or [Brothers](game:Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons), as there are characters and plot threads which develop meaning as the game proceeds; but The Swapper's story doesn't really <i>crystallize</i> until its final moments, and at that point, makes everything before it look like confusing background noise.  (There is a fascinating <i>Alien</i>-style plot, here, but it isn't told well at all.)  And The Swapper also grabs some aesthetic attention early on, with its unique look and chilling menu theme music; but as it goes on, most of the game is relatively dark, and all but silent.

Ultimately, while the puzzles are quite strong, The Swapper's other elements are kind of all over the place.  Overall it's pretty good, but - largely due to its confusing storytelling - it frequently feels lacking in focus.  A better gradient between the plot's initial mystery, and its final revelation, could make this sci-fi adventure even more compelling.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:The Bridge>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Braid>  
<b>On par with</b>: <game:Closure>, <game:Gateways>

<i>Progress: Complete.</i>