+++
date = "2018-01-01T01:01:46-08:00"
title = "2017: Remastered"
category = ["Site News"]
+++

It's 2018, and I'm making the Glog great again.

I'm doing well in recovering from {{% abslink href="2016/01/01/2015-a-shameful-embarrassment-of-statistical-failure/" %}}2015's precipitous drop{{% /abslink %}} in games played.  I made {{% abslink href="2017/01/01/2016-hey-it-could-be-worse/" %}}incremental progress in 2016{{% /abslink %}}, and am proud to say that these trends continued in 2017.

But enough boring talk about numbers; let's <i>see</i> the boring numbers!

{{< chart type="ColumnChart" datafile="/data/postsandgames_2017.json" title="Posts and Games" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" >}}

That's 78 games for 2017, up from 45 in 2016.  Not too bad!  Although there is the statistical caveat that 2017 included record-setting counts of both game demos, and replays of games I'd played before -- at 10 (12.8%) and <b>18</b> (23.1%), respectively.

{{< chart type="ColumnChart" datafile="/data/demosandreplays_2017.json" title="Games Demoed and Replayed" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" >}}

The highlight of those was definitely {{% game "Borderlands 2" %}}Borderlands 2{{% /game %}} and its DLCs, which have held up pretty well (for the most part; more on this later).  {{% game "Okami HD" %}}Okami's new HD update{{% /game %}} (still in-progress) has been quite pleasant, too -- it has the same flaws as the original, but with beauty and lightheartedness that really make up for them.  And {{% game "Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time" %}}Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time{{% /game %}} was a joy to revisit; its storytelling is still fun and riveting, more than a decade later.

In contrast, the remasters of {{% game "BioShock 2 Remastered" %}}BioShock 2{{% /game %}} and especially {{% game "BioShock Infinite" %}}Infinite{{% /game %}} weren't nearly as good the second time 'round.  I think because their plots and environments relied heavily on the "wow" factor of seeing them for the first time; absent that, there isn't much memorable substance.

Similarly, revisiting {{% game "Diablo III" %}}Diablo III{{% /game %}} (still in-progress) and the remasters of {{% game "Darksiders: Warmastered Edition" %}}Darksiders{{% /game %}} and {{% game "The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask 3D" %}}Majora's Mask{{% /game %}} reminded me more of what those games <i>lack</i>, than what they had originally gotten right.  Time hasn't been friendly to Majora, in particular.

Let's look at more numbers!  Counting up IGDB metadata on "game type" e.g. expansions and downloadable content:

{{< chart type="ColumnChart" datafile="/data/gametypes_nomain_2017.json" title="Games by Type (except Main Game)" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" >}}

Last year I played a record high number of DLCs, at 15 (19.2%) -- the majority (9 of them) thanks to Borderlands 2.  Past replaying the main four story packs, this was my first time with the five "Headhunter" DLCs, which were, uh, <i>mixed</i>.  {{% game "Borderlands 2: The Horrible Hunger of the Ravenous Wattle Gobbler" %}}Wattle Gobbler{{% /game %}} was a fun excuse to revisit Mr. Torgue, and {{% game "Borderlands 2: Sir Hammerlock vs. the Son of Crawmerax" %}}Son of Crawmerax{{% /game %}} was very pretty, but the rest felt generally janky and missable.

Three more DLCs came from {{% game "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Spirit of Justice" %}}Phoenix Wright{{% /game %}}: one {{% game "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Spirit of Justice: Special Episode - Turnabout Time Traveler" %}}real one{{% /game %}} with a fun story, and two that were {{% game "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Spirit of Justice: Phoenix Wright - Asinine Attorney" %}}absolutely{{% /game %}} {{% game "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Spirit of Justice: Apollo Justice - Asinine Attorney" %}}asinine{{% /game %}}.  I'm going to be much more wary of Capcom's DLC menu, next time.

And the other three DLCs were <i>also</i> replays, via BioShock.  It wasn't quite so obvious back in 2011, but the ending of {{% game "BioShock 2: Minerva's Den Remastered" %}}Minerva's Den{{% /game %}} really does feel like a seminal step toward today's "Walking Simulator" genre (which makes sense, since its developers went on to create {{% game "Gone Home" %}}Gone Home{{% /game %}}).  As for {{% game "BioShock Infinite: Burial at Sea - Episode 1" %}}both{{% /game %}} {{% game "BioShock Infinite: Burial at Sea - Episode 2" %}}episodes{{% /game %}} of Burial at Sea... like BioShock Infinite itself, stripped of its first-time "wow" moments, it just wasn't very impactful.

More numbers: what platforms did I play on?  Actually -- since I know {{% platform "PC" %}}PC{{% /platform %}} dominates every year; what <i>other</i> platforms did I play on?

{{< chart type="ColumnChart" datafile="/data/gameplatforms_nopc_2017.json" title="Games by Platform (except PC, and those with zero games in 2017)" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" >}}

<i>Eight years later</i>, I've finally put {{% game "Mario &amp; Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story" %}}Bowser's Inside Story{{% /game %}} to rest, formally retiring my {{% platform "DS" %}}DS{{% /platform %}} backlog.  And {{% game "The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild" %}}Breath of the Wild{{% /game %}} is certainly the death knell for my {{% platform "Wii U" %}}Wii U{{% /platform %}}.

I made a pretty big dent in my {{% platform "3DS" %}}3DS{{% /platform %}} backlog, too -- {{% game "Paper Mario: Sticker Star" %}}one more{{% /game %}} to go, <i>maybe</i> two if someone talks me into playing {{% game "Metroid: Samus Returns" %}}Samus Returns{{% /game %}}.

My {{% platform "PS4" %}}PS4{{% /platform %}} activity has certainly declined, ... since there was only one {{% game "Uncharted: The Lost Legacy" %}}new Uncharted game{{% /game %}} last year.  But I'm not done with it yet, at least not until I can try out {{% game "Horizon Zero Dawn" %}}Horizon{{% /game %}} and {{% game "The Last Guardian" %}}The Last Guardian{{% /game %}}.

The {{% platform "Switch" %}}Switch{{% /platform %}} is a new entry, via {{% game "Super Mario Odyssey" %}}Super Mario Odyssey{{% /game %}}.  Other than a probable replay of Zelda, it's hard to guess how much activity this might see in the future.  ({{% game "Metroid Prime 4" %}}Metroid{{% /game %}}, please?)

Now for something I haven't really tracked before: how much did I actually <i>like</i> what I played?

{{< chart type="ColumnChart" datafile="/data/ratings_2017.json" title="Ratings" colors="[\"gray\", \"red\", \"orange\", \"gold\", \"green\", \"blue\"]" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" >}}

Well, the {{% rating "Awesome" %}}Awesome{{% /rating %}} count is on the low side - at 6 (7.7%) - with Breath of the Wild being the standout of the year.  But plenty of {{% rating "Good" %}}Good{{% /rating %}}s, at 26 (33.3%).  That's, uh... that's good.  &#x1F44D;

Those Good games ended up including a lot of memorable, if imperfect, experiences:

* {{% game "Rebel Galaxy" %}}Rebel Galaxy{{% /game %}} captured a sense of freedom that can only come from truckin' around space,
* {{% game "Oxenfree" %}}Oxenfree{{% /game %}} told a thrilling virtual-campfire sci-fi story,
* {{% game "Pitfall Planet" %}}Pitfall Planet{{% /game %}} really charmed my co-op partner and I, and we barely killed each other at all!,
* {{% game "Child of Light" %}}Child of Light{{% /game %}} reminded me just how fun turn-based RPGs can be,
* {{% game "Tales from the Borderlands" %}}Tales from the Borderlands{{% /game %}} was a hilarious romp through Pandora's twisted world,
* and as above, Okami HD is more gorgeous than ever.

While I still rated them positively, I'm let down by last year's trajectory for {{% tag "Zachtronics" %}}Zachtronics{{% /tag %}} games.  {{% game "Infinifactory" %}}Infinifactory{{% /game %}} was <i>great</i>, ... up until the last few levels became way too much.  And both {{% game "Shenzhen I/O" %}}Shenzhen I/O{{% /game %}} and {{% game "Opus Magnum" %}}Opus Magnum{{% /game %}} (still in-progress) - while fun - felt like steps backwards.

There was plenty of {{% rating "Meh" %}}Meh{{% /rating %}} to go around in 2017, which isn't generally worth mentioning -- but {{% game "Ori and the Blind Forest: Definitive Edition" %}}Ori and the Blind Forest{{% /game %}} was definitely a disappointment.  Chalk another one up to excessive internet fervor.

Oh yeah, and {{% game "Yooka-Laylee" %}}Yooka-Laylee{{% /game %}} happened.  Just a shame, that one.

So, that was 2017.  What's on the docket for 2018?  Well, it doesn't look like there's a whole hell of a lot "upcoming," other than some Kickstarter games that <i>always</i> seem at least a year away.

Having met - and exceeded! - my goal number of games last year, I think my new goal will be to attack the bottom of my backlog: ancient games (like {{% game "Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic" %}}Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic{{% /game %}}) and remasters (like {{% game "Baldur's Gate: Enhanced Edition" %}}Baldur's Gate: Enhanced Edition{{% /game %}}), and franchises that I've fallen behind on (like {{% game "Dark Souls: Prepare to Die Edition" %}}Dark Souls{{% /game %}} and {{% game "The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings" %}}The Witcher{{% /game %}}).

Plus my co-op partner is hungry for more Borderlands, so {{% game "Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel" %}}the Pre-Sequel{{% /game %}} is probably in my near-future.

Here's to another fruitful year of gaming!
