+++
date = "2011-01-16T17:36:47-07:00"
title = "Red Dead Redemption"
slug = "red-dead-redemption-3"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Red Dead Redemption"]
platform = ["Xbox 360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

In Redemption's first area of New Austin (the world is split into three regions, separated by rivers ... just like in every other Rockstar game), I was amazed by the game's potential and impressed by its execution, albeit bored by cattle-herding and horse-breaking.  As a big fan of the 3d GTAs, I was pretty concerned that the Old West's empty landscapes and lack of potential victims would bore me to death; but taking side-missions, running into random world encounters, and getting to know interesting characters like the MacFarlanes really completed the package for me.  Horse riding, rather than a replacement for driving, felt more like breathing room between the action.

When I got to Mexico, though, all of that changed.  The landscape became wide, but rocky, persuading me to make extensive use of RDR's unsatisfying Fast Travel system; and there simply wasn't as much content to go around.  And while I was hoping that this was just the game taking a siesta, the third act of West Elizabeth was, while much smaller and more full of interesting environments, spread just as thin in terms of fun things to do.  I found out that I'd already encountered the majority of the game's Stranger missions, and none of the campaign's characters in Mexico, or (even more so) in West Elizabeth, were as interesting as the ones I encountered in New Austin.

Not to mention, the story kind of falls apart in the end.  While the conclusion is genuinely good, the last hour or two of getting there feels rushed and incomplete.  The whole Homestead segment really just seemed out of place.

So while RDR's first third had me daring to dream that its improvements on GTA4's optional content would make it an even better game, the empty Mexican wilderness, gradually disappointing mission pacing, and ultimately awkward final act brought things back down to earth.  It's still a greatly fun game, of course, with plenty to do after-the-fact if you're interested in that sort of thing.  But I'll still take a Blista Compact over a Kentucky Saddler any day.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Grand Theft Auto III>, <game:Red Dead Revolver>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Grand Theft Auto IV>  
<b>Now I'm looking forward to</b>: the [Undead Nightmare](game:Red Dead Redemption: Undead Nightmare) expansion, which has <a href="http://reddead.wikia.com/wiki/War">a horse that's on fire</a>

<i>Progress: Remembered My Family</i>