+++
date = "2011-01-18T00:42:53-07:00"
title = "Red Dead Redemption: Undead Nightmare"
slug = "red-dead-redemption-undead-nightmare-2"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Red Dead Redemption: Undead Nightmare" ]
platform = [ "X360" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

It starts with a melodramatic interruption to <game:Red Dead Redemption>'s main storyline, takes John Marston on a six-hour tour of the Old West <i>brimming</i> with zombies, and is filled with satirical dialog that barely manages to keep its tongue in its cheek.  Undead Nightmare takes the mechanics you learned in RDR, throws away trivialities like fame, justice, and money, and mixes up the combat by replacing wild animals and gun-toting banditos with, uh, wild zombified banditos.

There are only about a dozen missions in Undead Nightmare (including optional side-missions), and since it's lacking most of Redemption's other extras, the content offering might seem a little thin.  But the real star of the show is the town defense/rescue system, which has Marston saving several towns and settlements from onslaughts of the undead.  It's somewhat reminiscent of Gang Warfare from [GTA San Andreas](game:Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas), except that your only rival gang is <i>zombies</i>.  While it does get a bit tedious in some exceptionally long invasions, the utter and outlandish brutality of slaughtering the undead hordes is pretty great.  (By the end of my game, I'd killed over a thousand zombies -- that's 2.5 zombie kills per minute!)

Not to mention, the <a href="http://reddead.wikia.com/wiki/Four_Horses_of_the_Apocalypse">Four Horses of the Apocalypse</a>.  That pretty much speaks for itself.

So while the content on offer isn't very extensive, and pretty much relies on the sheer joy of headshotting brainless monsters, there's something to be said for the straightforwardness of Undead Nightmare.  And for horses on fire.  All for $10!

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Overlord: Raising Hell>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: [The Ballad of Gay Tony](game:Grand Theft Auto IV: The Ballad of Gay Tony)  
<b>I may have forgotten to mention</b>: War, the <a href="http://reddead.wikia.com/wiki/War">horse that's on fire</a>

<i>Progress: Tamed the Four Horses</i>