+++
date = "2007-02-01T19:38:09-07:00"
title = "Tron 2.0"
slug = "tron-2-0-8"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Tron 2.0"]
platform = ["Mac"]
rating = ["Bad"]
+++

I tried, tried, and tried again to get past the Legacy Code chapter in Normal Mode.  I even tried a few times in Easy Mode.  In the end I had to use the God Mode code to get anywhere.  Forgive me, Gunpei, for I have cheated.

The Tron nostalgia is cool.  The gameplay mechanics (subroutines) are cool.  The environments and enemies - Oh and did I mention the tanks? - are cool.  The plot is ... pretty vacant, though it at least loops back into the Tron nostalgia.  But Tron 2.0's difficulty balancing is far and away the worst I've seen in any game, ever.  This isn't a case of being thrust into a Contra style apocalyptic battlefield, but a case of being requested to arrange drive lenses and activate I/O nodes while taking fire from all sides from weapons that can bring you from full to dead in two seconds flat.

I know I'm awful at shooter games in general, but I also know that being outmatched in Easy Mode at less than 20\% of the way through the game is a huge problem.  I'll continue playing in God Mode just to see how it plays out, since it's still <i>marginally</i> fun (some things like jumping puzzles and timing challenges are difficult even with total invincibility), but it's already lost any possibility of being a real, fun game.

Footnote: lightcycle races are a recurring theme, so it turns out that I wasn't done with them after all.

<i>Progress: Master User - Remote Access Node</i>