+++
date = "2009-07-27T00:20:53-07:00"
title = "MadWorld"
slug = "madworld-8"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["MadWorld"]
platform = ["Wii"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

And, that's it.  I'd guess I ended up clocking in somewhere around 6 hours, maybe 8 tops.  So yes, it's quite short.  As I've alluded to earlier, though, it's a real blast once you get used to it.

I suppose you could describe it a bit like a learning curve, although maybe it would be more appropriate to say that the game is good once you "get it."  The most disappointing thing about MadWorld, and I suspect the single biggest reason anyone will dislike it, is that it <i>allows</i> the player to lazily waste time scraping up points with boring kills.  Not just allows them, really - it's easy to fall into this trap, not even recognizing that the chainsaw is not the ultimate weapon.

There are definitely steps that could be taken to better highlight each level's different options, e.g. indicators on the pause map and the HUD radar, and perhaps on-screen prompts and relevant banter from the game's commentators.  These already happen when new stuff enters a stage, but there's no love for a level's base features (which is most of them).

A few other aspects of the game could be improved for a sequel, which I really really hope happens:

- Please, <i>some</i> color!  If points of interest in levels and on enemies could be painted, say, yellow, my ability to actually see what's going on would be vastly improved.  As good as the black and white looks, it just does not serve the game as well as more visual contrast would.

- A better told story.  The plot in this game wasn't bad, exactly; but the way it comes out, in progressively-lengthy cutscenes inbetween levels, could use work.  They were rarely relevant to Jack's progress in the game itself, and as a result, the story's multiple big reveals didn't have a whole lot of dramatic effect.  (Jack's apathetic attitude didn't help.)

- Unlockables!  When you finish MadWorld, you can replay it from the beginning with two new weapons, and in an optional Hard mode, but that's the sum total of the game's unlockable spoils.  I feel like additional playable characters would fit in great - since the chainsaw is the only gameplay feature that's really tied to Jack himself - and could give some additional meaning to accruing points.

- A pickier (or less picky?) commentary engine.  The lines are fucking hilarious, but as with any game commentary, it's ruined by repeats.  More often than not, a common, repeated action, like attacking in motorcycle levels, continually triggers the same comments.  The commentators should be less inclined to repeat themselves, and of course a bigger script wouldn't hurt either.

The core gameplay, though, I wouldn't really touch.  After I got that the focus was on injury over killing, everything just came together; once you find them, each level's violence devices are a joyful variety, and the levels themselves, as well as the bosses and mini-bosses, are extremely well designed.  Other than a little more color, I really can't recommend any changes to the game's style, either, as it looks and sounds perfect for the content of the game.

MadWorld is an extremely fun game marred by a few flaws, the biggest of which is that it's possible to not have fun playing it.  My tip: check the map as soon as a level starts.  Take a look around to see what you can use, and you'll inevitably run into victims on your way to whatever crazy death contraption you find.

<i>Progress: Beat on Normal</i>