+++
date = "2009-07-18T18:26:11-07:00"
title = "Ghostbusters: The Video Game"
slug = "ghostbusters-the-video-game-6"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Ghostbusters: The Video Game (PC, PS3, X360)" ]
platform = [ "X360" ]
rating = [ "Meh" ]
+++

I hate to be such a bitch about graphical quality, but the Wii version of this game's weird aesthetics kind of ruffled me, and I'm starting to get concerned about seeing early-PS2-quality visuals on my HDTV.  The 360 version looks <i>gorgeous</i>, which I assume means that the PS3 and PC versions look great as well.

Unfortunately, that's not the only comparison I can make between Ghostbusters and [Force Unleashed](game:Star Wars: The Force Unleashed (Wii)).  While the higher-horsepower version of the game looks way better, its gameplay mechanics just aren't as fun.  As awkward as using gestures to <s>swing a lightsaber</s> wrangle a ghost can sometimes be, it is at least more satisfying than tilting a stick and jamming a shoulder button.  And - judging by the demo - despite being developed by two different studios, the hi- and lo-def versions of Ghostbusters' levels appear to have the same amount of interactive detail and engagement.

So the characters actually <i>look right</i> in this one, and it has a neat money-based upgrade system, to boot.  But there's no campaign co-op, and the ghost-catching isn't quite as fun as on the Wii.  To me, this version doesn't really seem better.

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- Finished the demo twice</i>