+++
date = "2012-07-29T21:50:48-07:00"
title = "Uncharted 2: Among Thieves"
slug = "uncharted-2-among-thieves-3"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Uncharted 2: Among Thieves"]
platform = ["PS3"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

To more fully investigate my previous assertion that Uncharted 2 bests [its sequel](game:Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception) in terms of pure <i>majesty</i> - and to take advantage of a free weekend - I played through Among Thieves again, and a funny thing happened.  While my trip through Uncharted 3 left me thinking back to giant Tibetan valley puzzles and train-fighting, this time through Uncharted 2, my mind wandered to burning chateaus, horseback chases, floating shanty-towns and sinking ships.

I guess that's a core strength of the narrative and design direction of the Uncharted franchise -- its high points are <i>so strong</i> that they can, in the long term, completely eradicate the memory of the low points.  With the controller in my hand, I spend most of my effort looking for hand-holds and cover points, and yelling in futility at wave after wave of shotgun troopers; but looking back, I recall gorgeous scenery, enthralling action sequences, and hilarious banter.  One might consider that what I remember is less like a video game and more like an eight-hour movie.

In retrospect, maybe my "a step forward and a step back" evaluation of Uncharted 3 wasn't totally fair and accurate.  But I might have to play it again to be sure.

Incidentally, around chapter 19 I lost my patience with bullet-sponge shock troops, and dialed the difficulty all the way down.  Shooting a guy in the head ten times and then exploding spontaneously just isn't fun.

<i>Progress: Finished again (on Very Easy)</i>