+++
date = "2012-07-01T22:38:16-07:00"
title = "Syndicate (2012)"
slug = "syndicate-2012-6"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Syndicate (2012)" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

Progressing through the campaign, the level design improves in general, as the funnel-like corridors become less elaborate and meandering.  The story pacing, on the other hand, doesn't really get better at all.  There are ambient logs with some background info, and a revelation or two near the end at least justifies the plot overall; but the storytelling isn't engaging and the ending isn't satisfying.

That's emblematic of Syndicate as a whole -- it shows a good hand early, but simply doesn't continue to live up to its own promise.  But it isn't a bad game either.  The story isn't consistently interesting, but alternating high- and low-action chapters keep the campaign moving at an acceptable pace.  There are few chances to exploit the unique Breach abilities in really impressive ways, but the general shooting (and the slow-mo Overlay ability) is good enough to carry the combat just fine.  There are few opportunities to explore the intricately-described game world, but the level design is nuanced enough to maintain a mild sense of wonder.

I think, with another year in the oven, this could have turned out to be a really groundbreaking game.  As it is, it's a fun but largely forgettable accomplishment.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Red Faction: Armageddon>  
<b>Really not as good as</b>: <game:Deus Ex: Human Revolution>

<i>Progress: Finished on Normal</i>