+++
date = "2008-09-17T22:34:01-07:00"
title = "Overlord"
slug = "overlord-7"
category = ["Looking Forward To It"]
game = ["Overlord"]
platform = ["X360"]
+++

I've always wanted to play a game about being completely evil.  Not a game where you can [unlock](game:Battalion Wars) the evil guys, or [choose](game:Fallout) "good" or "evil" paths; not a game where you're [accidentally](game:Shadow of the Colossus) evil, or a game where you do [evil things](game:Hitman 2: Silent Assassin) that are actually good; not a game where you're evil and [lazy](game:Wario: Master of Disguise), or just [emo](game:Baten Kaitos: Eternal Wings and the Lost Ocean).  A game where you [revel](game:No More Heroes) in evildoing.  A game that not only <i>allows</i> evil, but [rewards](game:Grand Theft Auto III) it.  In Overlord, you start out evil, and your goal is to become <i>more</i> evil.

You control demon imps, ordering them to do your bidding - which makes the game resemble <game:Pikmin> in a startling number of ways, e.g. the imps picking up and carrying objects, or assaulting an obstacle or enemy.  You even have different colors of imp, corresponding to unique talents, though these aren't in the demo.  Just imagine that Captain Olimar is fucking <i>evil</i>, your spaceship is actually an <i>evil tower</i>, and the bug-monsters are <i>short, fat people</i>.  Halflings were the enemy du jour in the demo, and though I had the option of slaughtering human bystanders, I didn't - on the advice of my imp advisor.  Can you imagine this dilemma?  If I kill them, I become more evil, but then I have <i>less people to be evil to</i>.

This game is just absolutely brilliant.  I inadvertently helped out the villagers a number of times, usually by destroying their homes and/or crops (and sometimes they ended up dying anyway).  As a result, they both love and fear me.  My imps are selfless little balls of hate that are all but too happy to go when I give them a suicidal order.  The writing and voice acting are hilarious, swimming in the game's sense of evilness.  While the gameplay isn't especially new, the evil-styled packaging is just awesome.  I'll definitely be picking this up when I have the time for it.

<i>Progress: Finished demo</i>