+++
date = "2012-09-16T17:15:33-07:00"
title = "Sid Meier's Civilization V"
slug = "civilization-v-7"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Sid Meier's Civilization V"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

I've heard that the {{% game "Sid Meier's Civilization V: Gods &amp; Kings" %}}Gods and Kings{{% /game %}} expansion fixes Civ 5's <a href="http://i.imgur.com/wxChN.png">so-called "diplomacy" mechanics</a>, but I'm not sure how much I should really expect.  I wish the diplomatic AI was sophisticated enough that I could really try to play people against each other, or at least maintain healthy alliances; but all the AI players ever want is <i>everything</i>.  They covet any land that isn't theirs, and they never forgive (or listen to) a warning against settling near <i>your</i> territory.  If you're winning - that is, if your score is high, not if you're actually close to finishing the game - the AI will declare war on you even if you've never slighted them at all.

A game I played the other day, I was allied with both Kamehameha of Polynesia, and Catherine of Russia; then Catherine turned on Kamehameha, and asked me to go to war against Kamehamema alongside her.  I accepted, and <i>because I betrayed a player I was friends with, Catherine denounced me</i>.  I reloaded a slightly stale save and then refused Catherine's offer of war, which of course caused her to still get pissed at me.  Whatever Cathy.

But enough ranting.  I've already spent so much time in Civ 5 -- I really just need to move on.  At least until G&K goes on Steam super-sale.

<i>Progress: Conquered planet, and so on</i>