+++
date = "2021-01-01T06:49:43-08:00"
title = "2020 in Review: Interesting Times"
category = ["Site News"]
+++

Well, we made it.  <i>Phew.</i>

Aside from the ... everything, 2020 was actually a great year for the Glog.  In January I resolved to aggressively tackle my backlog, and I ended up doing a damned good job of it; a couple more years like this might actually clear it out!

{{< chart type="ColumnChart" datafile="/data/postsandgames_2020.json" title="Posts and Games" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" >}}

Last year saw the second-highest number of games Glogged since I started counting -- and that's only the number of games I "bothered" to write about.

I don't have a firm count of how many I gave up on without a post, but I will say ... the scroll bar on my Steam library is getting pretty confident in itself.

The dark side of backlog-busting is that many of those games sat unplayed for a reason - more on that in a bit - and, for palate-cleansing purposes, my 2020 gaming also included a significant amount of replaying old favorites.

{{< chart type="AreaChart" datafile="/data/demosandreplays_2020.json" title="Games Demoed and Replayed" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" isStacked="percent" pointSize="5" focusTarget="category" >}}

{{% game "Grand Theft Auto IV" %}}Grand Theft Auto IV{{% /game %}} / {{% game "Grand Theft Auto IV: The Ballad of Gay Tony" %}}Ballad of Gay Tony{{% /game %}} / {{% game "Grand Theft Auto V" %}}V{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Batman: Arkham Origins" %}}Batman: Arkham Origins{{% /game %}} / {{% game "Batman: Arkham Asylum" %}}Asylum{{% /game %}} / {{% game "Batman: Arkham City" %}}City{{% /game %}} / {{% game "Batman: Arkham City - Harley Quinn's Revenge" %}}Harley Quinn's Revenge{{% /game %}} / {{% game "Batman: Arkham Knight" %}}Knight{{% /game %}}, and {{% game "Uncharted 2: Among Thieves" %}}Uncharted 2{{% /game %}} / {{% game "Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception" %}}3{{% /game %}} / {{% game "Uncharted 4: A Thief's End" %}}4{{% /game %}} / {{% game "Uncharted: The Lost Legacy" %}}Lost Legacy{{% /game %}} account for the bulk of said replays.

Plus some brief trips back to {{% game "VVVVVV" %}}VVVVVV{{% /game %}} for its tenth anniversary; {{% game "Prince of Persia (2008)" %}}Prince of Persia (2008){{% /game %}} which has been officially demoted out of "old favorite" status; and {{% game "Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance" %}}Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance{{% /game %}} which was really more of a "re-attempt" (though not much of one).

But I also found time for a fair number of demos last year, and some of them were even good!  Don't be surprised to read more about the full versions of {{% game "Voxelgram" %}}Voxelgram{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Batbarian: Testament of the Primordials" %}}Batbarian{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Raji: An Ancient Epic" %}}Raji: An Ancient Epic{{% /game %}}, and {{% game "Midnight Protocol" %}}Midnight Protocol{{% /game %}} in the future.

On that note, it was very satisfying to see Steam evangelizing demos in its <a href="https://store.steampowered.com/sale/SteamGameFestival-Spring">Spring</a>, <a href="https://store.steampowered.com/sale/gamefestival">Summer</a>, and <a href="https://store.steampowered.com/sale/steamgamefestival">Autumn Game Festival</a> events.  I really hope that this trend continues after in-person game conventions have resumed.

As for DLC and expansion activity, those replays ended up feeding a big chunk of it...

{{< chart type="AreaChart" datafile="/data/gametypes_2020.json" title="Games by Type" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" isStacked="percent" pointSize="5" focusTarget="category" >}}

... between the aforementioned Ballad of Gay Tony, Harley Quinn's Revenge, and Lost Legacy replays.  Last year also saw my <i>first</i> playthroughs of some Batman DLCs, specifically the better-than-expected {{% game "Batman: Arkham Origins - Cold, Cold Heart" %}}Cold, Cold Heart{{% /game %}}, the <i>worse</i>-than-expected {{% game "Batman: Arkham Knight - A Matter of Family" %}}A Matter of Family{{% /game %}}, and the pretty-much-just-as-expected {{% game "Batman: Arkham Knight - Season of Infamy: Most Wanted Expansion" %}}Season of Infamy: Most Wanted Expansion{{% /game %}}.

The remainder of my DLCs last year were {{% game "Fallout 4" %}}Fallout 4{{% /game %}}'s, namely {{% game "Fallout 4: Automatron" %}}Automatron{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Fallout 4: Vault-Tec Workshop" %}}Vault-Tec Workshop{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Fallout 4: Far Harbor" %}}Far Harbor{{% /game %}}, and {{% game "Fallout 4: Nuka World" %}}Nuka World{{% /game %}} ... that last one <i>thoroughly</i> wearing out the game's welcome.  Bethesda's proliferation of DLC packs is a case study in what happens when you <i>don't</i> "leave them wanting more."

Around now is where I would normally chart my cross-platform game activity, excluding the always-unfairly-advantaged {{% platform "PC" %}}PC{{% /platform %}} -- normally, that is, but last year I only played on <i>one</i> other platform ({{% platform "PS4" %}}PS4{{% /platform %}}) and most of that was replaying Uncharted.

My one non-PC, non-replay game of 2020 was the {{% game "Final Fantasy VII Remake" %}}Final Fantasy VII Remake{{% /game %}} demo, which I was side-eyeing even before full-game reviews started to explain <a href="https://www.vg247.com/2020/04/22/final-fantasy-7-remake-ending-explained-sequel/">how weird it gets</a>.

Now, a few paragraphs ago, I said that the "dark side" of spelunking into my backlog was that many games were there "for a reason."  If I was being generous, I could say the reason was that they didn't quite stand out from their competitors; but if I was being <i>real</i>, I'd say that many just <i>weren't good</i>.

{{< chart type="AreaChart" datafile="/data/ratings_2020.json" title="Ratings" colors="[\"gray\", \"red\", \"orange\", \"gold\", \"green\", \"blue\"]" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" isStacked="percent" pointSize="5" focusTarget="category" >}}

My game ratings for 2020 were significantly biased toward "No Rating" (which sometimes just means I'm being polite) and {{% rating "Meh" %}}Meh{{% /rating %}}, with a record-low proportion of {{% rating "Good" %}}Good{{% /rating %}} or {{% rating "Awesome" %}}Awesome{{% /rating %}} ratings.

Excluding replays, the only games I counted as Awesome were {{% game "Pictopix" %}}Pictopix{{% /game %}} (so many puzzles!) and {{% game "Factorio" %}}Factorio{{% /game %}} (so many conveyor belts!).

There were some stand-out Good games, for sure, like {{% game "Headlander" %}}Headlander{{% /game %}}, {{% game "The Turing Test" %}}The Turing Test{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Murder by Numbers" %}}Murder by Numbers{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Dishonored: Death of the Outsider" %}}Dishonored: Death of the Outsider{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Iconoclasts" %}}Iconoclasts{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Masquerada: Songs and Shadows" %}}Masquerada: Songs and Shadows{{% /game %}}, ... and {{% game "Hollow Knight" %}}Hollow Knight{{% /game %}}, which might be my "most memorably good" game of the year (like {{% game "Indivisible" %}}Indivisible{{% /game %}} before it).

I'll even admit - yes, <i>admit</i> - that {{% game "Fallout 4" %}}Fallout 4{{% /game %}} was good, and enjoyable, and sometimes captivating, despite how much I've ranted (and will surely rant in the future) about its various transgressions.

Lately, though, I've been seriously contemplating how {{% abslink href="2019/01/01/2018-in-review-the-future-is-soon/" %}}2018 <i>spoiled</i> me{{% /abslink %}} with {{% game "God of War (2018)" %}}God of War{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Horizon Zero Dawn" %}}Horizon Zero Dawn{{% /game %}}, and of course {{% game "The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt" %}}The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt{{% /game %}}.  It's frankly hard to judge other games as "Awesome" in a post-Geralt world.

That said, many of the games that disappointed me in 2020 have no one to blame but themselves.  {{% game "Dishonored 2" %}}Dishonored 2{{% /game %}} and (especially) {{% game "Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus" %}}Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus{{% /game %}} failed to live up to the expectations set by their predecessors.  {{% game "3030 Deathwar Redux" %}}3030 Deathwar Redux{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Cosmic Star Heroine" %}}Cosmic Star Heroine{{% /game %}}, and {{% game "Dex" %}}Dex{{% /game %}} were all victims of out-sized ambitions, and under-delivered on their core loops.  {{% game "Undertale" %}}Undertale{{% /game %}} had some great ideas, like, <i>I get it</i>, but the game itself was clunky and boring.

{{% game "Furi" %}}Furi{{% /game %}} definitely wasn't for me.  I think it might be for people who really hate themselves.

And I feel I have to make a note, for the record, on {{% game "Baldur's Gate: Enhanced Edition" %}}Baldur's Gate{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Planescape: Torment - Enhanced Edition" %}}Planescape: Torment{{% /game %}}, and {{% game "Divinity: Original Sin - Enhanced Edition" %}}Divinity: Original Sin{{% /game %}}.  Between these three heavy-hitters of the classically-styled CRPG, 2020 was the year I finally realized that I'm <i>not into</i> this sub-genre.

Which has helped shape my gaming plans for the year ahead, <i>vis-a-vis</i> what portions of my backlog to focus on.  As did {{% game "Cyberpunk 2077" %}}Cyberpunk 2077{{% /game %}}'s <a href="https://www.marketwatch.com/story/heres-how-to-get-your-cyberpunk-2077-refund-2020-12-18">wet fart of a launch</a>, such that I know my inevitable trip to Night City is still several months away.

Some {{% game "Borderlands 3" %}}Borderlands 3{{% /game %}} DLCs might be part of my 2021 plan, too.  And I've still got to get around to {{% game "Red Dead Redemption 2" %}}Red Dead Redemption 2{{% /game %}}, and so, so many others in {{% abslink href="backlog/" %}}that backlog{{% /abslink %}}.  But I think I'm catching up...!

One last footnote: with Factorio 1.0 launched, and {{% game "A.N.N.E." %}}A.N.N.E.{{% /game %}} being about as complete as it's likely to get, I think I'm finally, <i>finally</i> done {{% abslink href="2018/01/21/early-access-late-release/" %}}waiting on crowdfunded games{{% /abslink %}}.  That's kind of a milestone, right?
