+++
date = "2014-09-06T13:34:20-07:00"
title = "Snaps Fired"
slug = "snaps-fired"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Snapshot"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

Snapshot makes a great first impression.  Its core mechanic is an interesting one: photographing special objects will "capture" them into a camera, and these photos can be placed back on top of the level to put said objects in new positions.  Photograph a block to get it out of the way, then place it next to a cliff to help jump up.  Photograph a door in an unreachable location, so it can be moved to a reachable one.  Photograph an elephant to move it under a platform, so as to trampoline-jump on its back (as per standard elephant procedure).  There are a ton of cool quirks here, from surfaces that restrict photography and must be disabled, to objects that must be observed from the right "angle" - moving the camera perspective - to capture.

But toward the end of the game's first chapter, its difficulty pacing and mechanical balance start to go awry.  It rapidly develops a wicked slant toward <i>execution</i>, rather than deduction.  Snapshot becomes pretty much the inverse of {{% game "Offspring Fling!" %}}Offspring Fling{{% /game %}} -- figuring out the puzzles isn't too hard, but perfectly placing objects and timing jumps becomes the game's <i>real</i> challenge.

Yeah, I am playing the "too hard" card.  But more than Snapshot's difficulty, its lack of <i>mercy</i> has turned me off of it.  It's far too easy to lose progress (by e.g. dropping something down a pit) just from placing an object incorrectly.  Levels become large enough that having to retry, whether from death or from an item getting stuck in the wrong place, is a serious inconvenience.  The game does a poor job of opening multiple playable levels at once; to put a point on this, I'm stuck in a single frustrating stage, and the rest of the game is blocked behind it.  I would gladly try to build up my skills on other levels before revisiting this one... but I can't.

Snapshot was really inventive and fun, for the first chapter.  But now that I'm stuck in a level that's just too hard for me, I can't help but resent the rest of the game for it.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Depict1" %}}Depict1{{% /game %}}, up until I hit the wall  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "Offspring Fling!" %}}Offspring Fling!{{% /game %}}  
<b>At least</b>: the graphics and soundtrack are pretty good.

<i>Progress: Stuck in part 2 of Chapter 2, Level 1 "Rolling Snow"</i>