+++
date = "2014-09-09T20:47:13-07:00"
title = "Metroidtori"
slug = "metroidtori"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Toki Tori 2+" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Awesome" ]
+++

Toki Tori 2 (including its enhanced "+" version) stretches the definition of "sequel."  It could be called an open-world <game:Toki Tori>, or a puzzle-centric <game:Super Metroid>, or even a side-scrolling <game:Myst>, but none of those would quite do the game justice.  Toki Tori 2 takes the basic structure of a platform-puzzle game and flips it on its head: instead of a collection of discrete stages, all the game's puzzles are represented in one continuous, interconnected world map.

There is no in-game HUD, and there aren't any tutorials; the game takes a <game:Super Mario Bros.> approach to instruction, teaching the player its controls and mechanics by introducing them in isolated contexts with forced challenges.  How to climb a ledge? -- whistle to attract a crab in a box!  How to get across a chasm? -- stomp to make a frog belch out a floating bubble!  Even the goal of the game is left initially ambiguous, which - although I still have a complaint about, below - drives the player to explore the map just for explorations' sake.

And the game is absolutely beautiful to behold.  Its art style is magnificently friendly and evocative of bright, colorful cartoons.  Its graphical fidelity is some of the best in the business, featuring high-resolution imagery, fluid animation, and eye-catching lighting and water effects.  Not to mention, the sound design is also top-notch, especially its effective ambient sound -- when sitting idle, birds will chirp, and creatures will growl and squeak, not just as background noise but as <i>actual in-game elements</i>.

The sum of these parts - a free-flowing world, the absence of intrusive UI, and gorgeous graphics - makes Toki Tori 2 an incredibly immersive and engaging experience.  It doesn't even feel like a video game, although it certainly is one, with concrete puzzle mechanics and clever level design.  Even its most difficult puzzle scenarios feel less like like "puzzles" and more like integrated components of a larger, living game world.

All that being said, there are some points where I would say that Toki Tori 2 errs a little too much on the side of "simple" design.  I think the game would be a lot better served if it had:

* A clearer indication of how to fast-travel, since backtracking (and re-solving puzzles) is unreasonable until discovering this.
* A clear pointer to the game's first major goal, from the beginning.  The rest of the game's critical path is clear after this point, so not illuminating the first part just seems awkward.
* A rewind feature - like the first Toki Tori had - to soften the blow of screwing up a late step in a complex puzzle.
* An integrated hint system, since the game's structure (and lack of named landmarks) makes it very difficult to find help for a specific puzzle.

But these occasionally-confusing shortcomings are insignificant in the face of the fresh and fascinating world that Toki Tori 2 pulls off.  It's challenging, creative, fun, and refreshing.  It's an experience unlike anything I've played before.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Toki Tori>, <game:Trine 2>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: for lack of a better comparison, <game:Super Mario Galaxy 2>  
<b>Focusing on an amazing aesthetic was definitely a good decision</b>: since some puzzles require extended staring contests with the screen.

<i>Progress: Found the five frogs, collecting the last few golden wings.</i>