+++
date = "2014-09-22T22:44:03-07:00"
title = "Diminutive Smash Bros."
slug = "diminutive-smash-bros"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS"]
platform = ["3DS"]
+++

The Smash Bros. 3DS demo has impressed me with its playability, and its in-game performance is pretty damned admirable.  But more than that, playing it has reinforced my decision to skip the portable version, and just hold out for {{% game "Super Smash Bros. for Wii U" %}}Super Smash Bros. for Wii U{{% /game %}}.

As smooth and basically fun as fighting on this small screen is, it's <i>still small</i>.  I miss the big-screen spectacle and bombast.  I miss room-filling arenas, and bodies being hurled out of the TV.  I'm missing a console version, pure and simple.

I'm also a little bit worried about my circle pad.  It doesn't take many smash attacks to realize that this hardware was <a href="http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2014/09/super_smash_bros_for_nintendo_3ds_brings_circle_pad_doom_in_japan">clearly not designed</a> to be jerked around.  A real joystick should feel considerably less worrisome.

... one last thing.  The title.  Really?  We're just, gonna, glom the platform name onto the series label now?  At least it distinguishes the "for {{% platform "3DS" %}}Nintendo 3DS{{% /platform %}}" version from the "for {{% platform "Wii U" %}}Wii U{{% /platform %}}" version, I guess -- at the cost of making any future Virtual Console releases of {{% game "Super Smash Bros." %}}legacy{{% /game %}} {{% game "Super Smash Bros. Melee" %}}Smash{{% /game %}} {{% game "Super Smash Bros. Brawl" %}}versions{{% /game %}} even more awkward.  (Not like anyone's still paying attention to Virtual Console anyway, right?)

<i>Progress: Played each of the demo's five characters.</i>