+++
date = "2022-01-01T00:49:39-08:00"
title = "2021 in Review: Not Dead Yet"
category = ["Site News"]
+++

<i>Alternative title: "2021 in Review: Different Year, Same Bullshit"</i>

... but, {{% abslink href="2021/01/01/2020-in-review-interesting-times/" %}}like 2020{{% /abslink %}}, 2021 had an upside: lots of opportunity to catch up on my videogame backlog.

Not all of that catching-up made it into the Glog -- more and more, I'm rapidly trying and discarding games, without wasting time on write-ups.  (I'll get to the <i>hard data</i> on that later.)

{{< chart type="ColumnChart" datafile="/data/postsandgames_2021.json" title="Posts and Games" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" >}}

In fact, 2021 saw my {{% abslink href="2021/09/06/dismissable-content/" %}}first multi-game post!{{% /abslink %}}, resulting in <i>more games played than posts written</i> for the first time in Glog history (ooh, ahh).  I consider that a good omen for my future gaming activity: less writing, more playing!

Anyway, my continued focus on backlog-busting also meant I paid less attention than ever to demos ({{% game "Copy Editor" %}}Copy Editor{{% /game %}} being the sole exception), although ...

{{< chart type="AreaChart" datafile="/data/demosandreplays_2021.json" title="Games Demoed and Replayed" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" isStacked="percent" pointSize="5" focusTarget="category" >}}

... just as in 2020, I did feel a frequent need to cleanse my palate, by replaying known-good games.

Setting aside {{% game "Darksiders II" %}}Darksiders II{{% /game %}} and {{% game "Deadly Premonition: Director's Cut" %}}Deadly Premonition{{% /game %}} - which <i>were</i> in my backlog to re-attempt, and which I've now finally abandoned - that Replay count consists of some really satisfying "comfort food" remasters:

<ul>
<li>{{% game "Mass Effect Legendary Edition" %}}Mass Effect Legendary Edition{{% /game %}}, despite the {{% game "Mass Effect" %}}first game{{% /game %}}'s awkward start, reunited me with truly endearing space-scoundrels in its {{% game "Mass Effect 2" %}}second{{% /game %}} and {{% game "Mass Effect 3" %}}third{{% /game %}} chapters.</li>
<li>{{% game "Saints Row: The Third Remastered" %}}Saints Row: The Third Remastered{{% /game %}} was a great excuse to re-wreak havoc in Steelport, even though its DLCs ({{% game "Saints Row: The Third - Genkibowl VII" %}}Genkibowl VII{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Saints Row: The Third - Gangstas in Space" %}}Gangstas in Space{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Saints Row: The Third - The Trouble with Clones" %}}The Trouble with Clones{{% /game %}}) overstayed their welcome a bit.</li>
<li>And although I'll never be able to re-experience the astonishment of its narrative reveals, {{% game "Horizon Zero Dawn" %}}Horizon Zero Dawn{{% /game %}} and {{% game "Horizon Zero Dawn: The Frozen Wilds" %}}The Frozen Wilds{{% /game %}} were nevertheless <i>wonderful</i> to play through again on PC.</li>
</ul>

Coincidentally, one side-effect of replaying those particular games (Mass Effect 2, especially) was the <b>most DLCs and expansions I've played in one year</b>:

{{< chart type="AreaChart" datafile="/data/gametypes_2021.json" title="Games by Type" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" isStacked="percent" pointSize="5" focusTarget="category" >}}

I've already mentioned Saints Row 3's DLCs, and Horizon's Frozen Wilds; then there were Mass Effect's {{% game "Mass Effect: Bring Down the Sky" %}}Bring Down the Sky{{% /game %}}, and Mass Effect 2's {{% game "Mass Effect 2: Zaeed - The Price of Revenge" %}}Zaeed - The Price of Revenge{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Mass Effect 2: Kasumi - Stolen Memory" %}}Kasumi - Stolen Memory{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Mass Effect 2: Firewalker Pack" %}}Firewalker Pack{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Mass Effect 2: Overlord" %}}Overlord{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Mass Effect 2: Lair of the Shadow Broker" %}}Lair of the Shadow Broker{{% /game %}}, and {{% game "Mass Effect 2: Arrival" %}}Arrival{{% /game %}} (phew!) ... which were all pretty underwhelming, and never struck me as critical to the overall Mass Effect epic.

So it was a pleasant surprise that Mass Effect 3's {{% game "Mass Effect 3: From Ashes" %}}From Ashes{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Mass Effect 3: Omega" %}}Omega{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Mass Effect 3: Leviathan" %}}Leviathan{{% /game %}}, and {{% game "Mass Effect 3: Citadel" %}}Citadel{{% /game %}} felt so substantial and rewarding.  Citadel, especially, was a stupendously heartwarming send-off for Shepard and her eclectic gang of misfits.

{{% game "Borderlands 3" %}}Borderlands 3{{% /game %}}'s DLCs, meanwhile, didn't fare that well; {{% game "Borderlands 3: Moxxi's Heist of the Handsome Jackpot" %}}Moxxi's Heist of the Handsome Jackpot{{% /game %}} was a fresh little side-adventure, and {{% game "Borderlands 3: Guns, Love, and Tentacles" %}}Guns, Love, and Tentacles{{% /game %}} spun a fun yarn as well, but {{% game "Borderlands 3: Bounty of Blood" %}}Bounty of Blood{{% /game %}} and {{% game "Borderlands 3: Psycho Krieg and the Fantastic Fustercluck" %}}Psycho Krieg and the Fantastic Fustercluck{{% /game %}} didn't bring much new or interesting to the table.  And the so-called {{% game "Borderlands 3: Director's Cut" %}}Director's Cut{{% /game %}} was simply <i>not</i> worth the price of Season Pass 2.

Finally, {{% game "The Talos Principle: Road to Gehenna" %}}The Talos Principle: Road to Gehenna{{% /game %}} may have failed to measure up to its main game's "wow" factor, but it was certainly a clever and worthwhile experience all its own.

As for my gaming platforms in 2021, well, "platform" would be more appropriate; as ever, the overwhelming majority of my playtime was on {{% platform "PC" %}}PC{{% /platform %}}.  My singular <i>non</i>-PC playthrough last year was {{% game "Ghost of Tsushima" %}}Ghost of Tsushima{{% /game %}} on {{% platform "PS4" %}}PS4{{% /platform %}}.

Which might be my last PS4 game, depending on how the upcoming {{% game "God of War: Ragnarok" %}}God of War{{% /game %}} and {{% game "Horizon Forbidden West" %}}Horizon{{% /game %}} sequels perform on the now-"old" hardware.

But if this is the end for my PS4, then it's going out with a "bang," as Ghost of Tsushima ranks among the small number of {{% rating "Awesome" %}}Awesome{{% /rating %}} games I played in 2021.

{{< chart type="AreaChart" datafile="/data/ratings_2021.json" title="Ratings" colors="[\"gray\", \"red\", \"orange\", \"gold\", \"green\", \"blue\"]" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" isStacked="percent" pointSize="5" focusTarget="category" >}}

That ranking also includes:

<ul>
<li>{{% game "The Talos Principle" %}}The Talos Principle{{% /game %}}, which had been sitting in my backlog for <i>seven years!</i></li>
<li>Two nonogram-style puzzle games, {{% game "Piczle Cross Adventure" %}}Piczle Cross Adventure{{% /game %}} (which is also an adventure!) and {{% game "Voxelgram" %}}Voxelgram{{% /game %}} (which also has a third dimension!)</li>
<li>And my aforementioned replays of {{% game "Horizon Zero Dawn" %}}Horizon Zero Dawn{{% /game %}} and {{% game "Mass Effect 2" %}}Mass Effect 2{{% /game %}} (which was even better the second time around!)</li>
</ul>

So - also like 2020 - it's a little disappointing that my top-rated games last year were so principally "puzzle" or "something I've played before."

But, I'd be remiss if I ignored some of the {{% rating "Good" %}}Good{{% /rating %}} games I played in 2021, too, like those Mass Effect 3 DLCs; a much-needed {{% tag "Ace Attorney" %}}Ace Attorney{{% /tag %}} installment from {{% game "The Great Ace Attorney: Adventures" %}}The Great Ace Attorney: Adventures{{% /game %}} and {{% game "The Great Ace Attorney 2: Resolve" %}}Resolve{{% /game %}}; the enchanting world-building of {{% game "Shadowrun Returns" %}}Shadowrun Returns{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Shadowrun: Dragonfall - Director's Cut" %}}Dragonfall{{% /game %}}, and {{% game "Shadowrun: Hong Kong - Extended Edition" %}}Hong Kong{{% /game %}}; and ...

What <i>had</i> been one of the oldest games on my backlog, {{% game "Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines" %}}Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines{{% /game %}}, turned out to have aged surprisingly well.  (Granted, it did need some <a href="https://www.moddb.com/mods/vtmb-unofficial-patch">modern tech support</a>.)  Bloodlines was a satisfying reminder of <i>why</i> I keep a backlog: sometimes, a game I've missed is actually worth catching up on, and lets me experience something cool that I haven't seen before.

Of course there's still plenty of <i>chaff</i> in my backlog that isn't so worthwhile ... and I did better, in 2021, at not wasting so much time writing about that chaff.  Check that "hard data" above: a marked decline in No Rating posts.  If the game isn't remarkable, then why bother remarking on it?

Hopefully, as I continue burning through my backlog in 2022, I'll stumble across more of those praise-worthy missed gems (and will avoid sinking time into the rest).  Here's to some positive progress - in my backlog, if nothing else - this year!
