+++
date = "2009-08-18T22:42:35-07:00"
title = "Flower, Sun, and Rain"
slug = "flower-sun-and-rain-4"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Flower, Sun, and Rain"]
platform = ["DS"]
rating = ["Awful"]
+++

What misery.  This is almost (<i>almost</i>) as bad as <game:Shadow of Destiny>.  But several times the length.  So, maybe it's worse, in a way.

Skipping the inane sidequests, the main challenges seem to be achievable in about 20-30 minutes each.  They're getting <i>longer</i>, though.  Not because they're more involved (unless you consider <b>walking</b> involvement).  There are no cars allowed on the island - despite the fact that you drove one from the airport? - so you must jog the agonizing distances between the Flower, Sun, and Rain hotel, and everything else on the island.  Joy.

Of course, this isn't bad enough.  There are linear games, and then there are <i>sequential games</i>.  In FSR you must talk to the NPCs and visit the relevant locations in precisely the right order; there is literally no other way to do it.  I got stuck in the middle of Day 10 because I got all the way to the Diner, but the guy I was supposed to talk to wasn't there, because I didn't have a conversation with a maid back at the hotel.  Is this still a video game?

But it seems that FSR does know how bad it is.  Characters semi-frequently break the fourth wall by talking candidly about the game, sometimes in regard to how contrived it seems, as if it's ironic and funny.  (It isn't.)

At this point I'm pushing onward out of <b>morbid curiosity</b>.  What horror will the game wreak upon me next?

<i>Progress: Day 12</i>