+++
date = "2009-08-29T12:02:06-07:00"
title = "Prototype"
slug = "prototype-5"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Prototype" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

I've been slow to come back to Prototype, simply because what I'd observed of the game, though fun at times, wasn't terribly compelling.  I'm glad I returned to it though, because - now that I'm halfway through the game - it's starting to make sense.

What makes Prototype <i>worth something</i> are its powers and upgrades.  The thing is, there are a <b>fuckton</b> of upgrades, including stuff like running faster, jumping higher, and being able to body-surf on people.  So it's easy to not even <i>notice</i> the potential effectiveness of upgrades for defensive capabilities, and different weapon forms (e.g. the shit that your arms turn into).

One mission I did earlier took about an hour of retrying, because there were so many fucking tanks and helicopters and rocket launchers firing on me all at once.  It probably would have been easier if I'd had Hammerfist, which would allow me to punch tanks until they <i>explode</i>, or the Shield, which is, well, a shield.

Then again, this particular mission didn't allow me to use my powers.  So nevermind - it was destined to be a clusterfuck anyway.

That's the rub about Prototype: there are some real fun things to do in here, but questionable design choices surround them.  Why is there a whole swath of the game that locks out my powers?  Why shouldn't I be able to hijack vehicles earlier?  New upgrades become available as you progress through missions - why not sooner, so I can actually <i>do</i> the missions?  Why are the side-missions so unrewarding and boring?  And why is a boss, a guy in fatigues with a cattle prod and an RPG, so much tougher to kill than giant, mutated flesh monsters?

Nevertheless, I'm now looking forward to becoming more powerful in the game, which is something I wouldn't have said yesterday.  I'm hooked - well, somewhat hooked, anyway.

I just wish the writing was a little better.  The dialog in these cutscenes is downright <i>insulting</i>.  What absolutely horrid storytelling.

<i>Progress: First and Last Things</i>