+++
date = "2009-08-22T01:20:02-07:00"
title = "Flower, Sun, and Rain"
slug = "flower-sun-and-rain-6"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Flower, Sun, and Rain"]
platform = ["NDS"]
rating = ["Awful"]
+++

Thank god.  It's finally over.

Pressing on in FSR was easy (well... easier than it would otherwise have been) because, most of the time, each day/level is relatively brief.  And in completing each successive day, that feeling of getting closer and closer to the end was all that kept me going.  Which made the hour-long level that had me going back and forth across the island - <i>three times</i> - especially frustrating.  And the last level, where I had to solve about two dozen arithmetic questions?  Jesus.

To say nothing of the expectedly nonsensical plot and completely unhelpful ending, Flower, Sun, and Rain <b>revels</b> in how bad a game it is.  Every time I had to walk across the map to talk to someone; every time I had to walk <i>back</i> because I didn't talk to someone else beforehand; every time a hot-spot on the map was completely invisible unless I was standing on it; every time a puzzle solution was simply a number from some page in the Guidebook (or worse yet, when it <i>wasn't</i>, and was instead some arbitrary abstraction thereof); it seemed like FSR really went out of its way to make me miserable.

It got to the point where I didn't want to play the game without a guide open next to me, because spending any more time than I had to on Lospass Island was simply unacceptable.  I would never have solved a few of the puzzles otherwise, since the in-game hints were <b>wrong</b>.  Not misleading, but explicitly incorrect, possibly mistranslated.  Wow, guys.

I'd like to think that I learned something from FSR, perhaps some lesson or lessons regarding intentionally pissing a player off.  But, I mean.  Come on.  In the end, Flower, Sun, and Rain is an exceedingly cruel piece of garbage, and I will never get those hours of my life back.

<i>Progress: Finished with barely any Lost+Found</i>