+++
date = "2011-05-07T18:28:26-07:00"
title = "Dwarfs!?"
slug = "dwarfs-2"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Dwarfs!?"]
platform = ["PC"]
+++

<a href="http://store.steampowered.com/app/35480/">Dwarfs!?</a> isn't the first game to try to make <game:Dwarf Fortress> into something <i>playable</i>, and it certainly won't be the last.  For its part, Dwarfs does a fair job of it -- the production values are obviously low, and its mechanics are relatively simple, but the package is basically fun.  At least, it can be fun, in the right circumstances.

Unfortunately, Dwarfs is (deliberately) designed not to emphasize planning and construction, but instead to challenge your reactivity to dangers like water, lava, and enemies.  It is possible to micro-manage your dwarves in such a way that they judiciously go after valuable minerals, and to tackle potential threats in an organized manner, but ordering dwarves to move in a particular way (and avoid particular things) costs money; way more money that you earn in the normal course of play.  The in-game guide somewhat correctly compares it to Lemmings, in the sense that you mostly leave the dwarves to their own devices, intervening when and as necessary.  This whac-a-mole approach to tunnel digging just isn't what I wanted out of it.

If Dwarfs is updated in the future to lean more toward my tastes (which <a href="http://forums.steampowered.com/forums/showthread.php?t=1872509#5">it might be</a>?), then I'll definitely take another look, because the game is otherwise well put-together and very approachable.

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- Played the tutorial and a few demo rounds</i>