+++
date = "2010-02-09T01:03:32-07:00"
title = "VVVVVV"
slug = "vvvvvv-4"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "VVVVVV" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

There are a few rooms that really tested my patience, and made me curse the slightly-floaty controls.  The game sometimes demands a level of precision that slippery movement can make <b>intensely</b> difficult.  But it's hard to stay mad at VVVVVV, because you never lose more than a few seconds of progress.

Despite its brevity - I finished in about two hours of gameplay - there is even a little diversity to the experience.  Each of the game's six (depending how you count them) levels has its own game-altering gimmick; and to find the levels, you'll need to explore the space around your ship, in what somewhat resembles a Metroid-styled overworld.  The collectible trinkets add a little extra flavor, along with some unlockable modes, although for my part I think pursuing these would be more frustration than it's worth.

VVVVVV doesn't reach the divine heights of <game:Braid> or show you as diverse environs as a Super Mario.  But it's a unique and impressive platform game that'll get your mind going, and is relatively easy to digest.  Also, the music is awesome.

If you're at all frugal - and don't get me <i>started</i> about being frugal - $15 for a two-hour game will strike you a little roughly.  In a marketplace where hours-long games tend under $10, VVVVVV really isn't priced competitively.  But try looking at it another way: that's just more than a good lunch, or a movie ticket.  This is <b>fun</b>, for $15.  Who cares!  <a href="http://thelettervsixtim.es/">Do it</a>.

<b>Better than</b>: most Flash games  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Braid>  
<b>Ideal price point</b>: $5, I'd think

<i>Progress: 12 trinkets, 865 deaths</i>