+++
date = "2010-02-11T00:34:19-07:00"
title = "Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories"
slug = "grand-theft-auto-vice-city-stories-6"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories"]
platform = ["PS2"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

They say that familiarity breeds contempt.  Vice City Stories being my fourth excursion into [the](game:Grand Theft Auto: Vice City) [PS2](game:Grand Theft Auto III) [GTAs](game:Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas), ... well, "contempt" isn't really the right term.  Maybe "lack of excitement?"  Not that I dislike it, but I'm just not that motivated to turn the game on.

Vice City is still, easily, my favorite GTA setting (although the game so far has taken place mostly in the shitty side-streets of the West island).  Miniature, built-for-PSP missions are just as pleasant here as they were in [Chinatown Wars](game:Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars).  And the PS2 GTA engine in Vice City Stories is its finest incarnation, full-stop.  But it still feels dreadfully inadequate in several ways, and exceedingly, well, <i>familiar</i>.

The biggest disappointment of Vice City Stories is how weak the narrative is.  This may be changing - I've only just begun dealing with [Vice City](game:Grand Theft Auto: Vice City) personality Lance Vance - but thus far, there's no real consistency to the plot, and the characters are mediocre at best.  With the exception of protagonist Vic Vance, who possesses a surprisingly "[Niko Bellic](game:Grand Theft Auto IV)" vibe.  But that's why I'm disappointed: the rest of the cast doesn't measure up to him at all.

Anyway, I'm rambling.  Aside from the story elements, and given that I haven't bothered with [Liberty City Stories](game:Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories), Vice City Stories is undoubtedly the best PS2 GTA.  Which is good!  But not <i>great</i>.

<i>Progress: Lance is a real prick</i>