+++
date = "2009-06-04T20:44:13-07:00"
title = "Sin & Punishment: Star Successor"
slug = "sin-punishment-star-successor-2"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Sin & Punishment: Star Successor"]
platform = ["Wii"]
+++

You'd be forgiven for mistaking Sin and Punishment 2 for the {{% game "Sin and Punishment" %}}original game{{% /game %}}, and not just because they appear to play similarly - they <i>appear</i> similar, this guy not exactly pushing the boundaries of modern graphics.  I was pretty unimpressed until I actually put hands to Wiimote and tried it out.  Then I was impressed.

What makes this game feel unique is both a direct and indirect result of using the remote to aim and fire.  It isn't just because Wiimote aiming can make almost anything more fun: because the analog stick has been freed from the shackles of aiming control, it now moves your character.  The Nunchuk stick allows quite a bit more freedom of movement than a directional pad, and Sin and Punishment 2 <i>uses</i> it, having you quite frequently dodging swarms of enemies and enemy fire (often <i>while flying</i>).  It brings the S&P formula quite a bit closer to a bullet hell shoot-em-up.  Since this is Treasure we're talking about, excitement may be appropriate.  Especially because you still have melee attacks, so striking the proper balance between avoidance and melee range is probably going to be a big gameplay element.

Also, I'm not really sure, but the start screen - in which you can select one of two characters - makes it look a <i>little</i> like there might be two-player co-op.  I'm not getting my hopes up, but that <i>would</i> kick some pretty heavy ass.

<i>Progress: Gave Up</i>
