+++
date = "2009-06-16T00:35:34-07:00"
title = "Kingdom Hearts 358/2 Days"
slug = "kingdom-hearts-3582-days-8"
category = [ "Looking Forward To It" ]
game = [ "Kingdom Hearts 358/2 Days" ]
platform = [ "NDS" ]
+++

Per Nintendo Power, volume 243 (July '09):

<i>Throughout your travels, you'll earn panels that represent items, magic, special abilities, weapon upgrades, and more.  To add one of those things to your arsenal, you simply place the corresponding panel on the grid.  You have a limited number of slots, however, and you can't alter the grid during a mission, so you have to decide beforehand which panels will be the most useful.  Each item and spell requires its own panel, so if you want three Potions, for instance, you'll need to equip three Potion panels.  Additionally, certain panels fill more than one slot.  Fortunately, the size of your grid increases as you level up.</i>

Interesting system - other games have done equipment/skills in the form of items, which usually sucks, but doing it the other way around may just be crazy enough to work.

Oh, and:

<i>Up to four people can embark on standalone, multiplayer-specific missions [...]  Each participant can choose to play as any member of Organization XIII [...] beginning players who haven't acquired many panels yet can elect to sign on as a guest and purchase panels with a given budget.  It's important to keep an even playing field, because these multiplayer shenanigans have both a cooperative and a competitive element, a la The Legend of Zelda: Four Swords.  [...]  When the dust settles, whoever has the most gems wins a Mission Crown, which you can trade in for special prizes back in the story mode.</i>

This multiplayer sounds <b>awesome</b>.  It's too bad I'll never be able to play it, because it's local-only and no one I know will buy this game.