+++
date = "2009-06-04T23:27:39-07:00"
title = "Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia"
slug = "castlevania-order-of-ecclesia-5"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia"]
platform = ["DS"]
+++

It's a DS Metroidvania.  Surprise!

The art style is supposedly different, replacing the last couple entries' "anime" aesthetic with a more western look, like the first two {{% game "Castlevania: Circle of the Moon" %}}GBA{{% /game %}} {{% game "Castlevania: Harmony of Dissonance" %}}titles{{% /game %}} - but really, who cares about this?  And the weaponization system, Glyphs, is extremely similar to the Souls from {{% game "Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow" %}}Aria{{% /game %}}/{{% game "Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow" %}}Dawn of Sorrow{{% /game %}} (each kind of enemy can drop one, and you equip them to a face button).  The world map, with play divided into discrete areas, is kind of new and gives the game a little sense of adventure, but is also an exacerbation of {{% game "Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin" %}}Portrait of Ruin{{% /game %}}'s multitude of trivial sub-worlds.

What's getting me about Ecclesia is the difficulty.  It started out super-easy, but within three or four levels, enemies were doing a ludicrous amount of damage to me.  The second boss was a humongous pain in the ass, and probably took me a good 5-10 minutes to wear down (not counting deaths and retries).  It seems like enemies are becoming stronger faster than I am... which is a bit concerning.

<i>Progress: 14.6%</i>