+++
date = "2011-03-11T16:12:08-07:00"
title = "Ilomilo"
slug = "ilomilo-5"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Ilomilo"]
platform = ["Xbox 360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Ilomilo is a perfect game for relaxing during a sick day (given I had some TV running for background audio, since Ilomilo's music can get a little tedious).

The core concept - reuniting Ilo and Milo by solving platform puzzles - is a pretty great one, as it involves not just moving blocks to get around obstacles, but using cooperative mechanics between the pair.  Many of the puzzle elements require one character to activate them, while helping the other character proceed.  But timing is rarely important -- Ilomilo is all about <i>figuring</i> the level out, and many levels are complicated enough that the solution takes several steps of working through as you go.

In addition to the satisfaction of puzzle-solving, the bonus levels (unlocked by collecting little "Safka" creatures in the regular levels) offer some pleasant thematic twists.  Of the three bonus levels in each chapter, one tells the continuation of a fairy-tale sidestory; one includes an ambient cameo from another indie game mascot (like {{% game "Super Meat Boy" %}}Meat Boy{{% /game %}} or a {{% game "World of Goo" %}}ball of goo{{% /game %}}); and one 3D-pixelizes Ilo and Milo in the style of {{% game "3D Dot Game Heroes" %}}3D Dot Game Heroes{{% /game %}}.  While the bonus levels don't change up the game formula (aside from being relatively harder than normal levels), these little flourishes help the game to feel fresh as it continues.

There are also a bunch of concept art and music collectibles, but I didn't find these rewards as interesting as simply the challenge of finding and obtaining them.

So Ilomilo is a fun game with plenty of collectibles.  But it's also pretty short.  The presentation is well-executed, and every level's puzzle is impressively designed, but the whole package doesn't take very long to work through.  (And I couldn't maintain any interest in the Ilomilo Shuffle minigame after one play.)

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "The Lost Vikings" %}}The Lost Vikings{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis" %}}Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2{{% /game %}}  
<b>There's a <a href="http://marketplace.xbox.com/en-US/Product/Autumn-Tale/93a71368-2b48-48cc-a864-13b2867a36ea">DLC package</a> with more levels</b>: but it costs <i>$3</i>, which doesn't make any numeric sense

<i>Progress: Collected everything!</i>