+++
date = "2011-11-16T02:16:09-07:00"
title = "Saints Row: The Third"
slug = "saints-row-the-third-6"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Saints Row: The Third"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Saints Row: The Third doesn't have the raw destructivity or explosivity of {{% game "Red Faction: Guerrilla" %}}Red Faction: Guerrilla{{% /game %}}.  It doesn't have the fishtailing car physics or the narrative <i>gravitas</i> of {{% game "Grand Theft Auto IV" %}}Grand Theft Auto IV{{% /game %}}.  It doesn't have the Nazis of {{% game "The Saboteur" %}}The Saboteur{{% /game %}}.

What it does have is a predilection, nay, a <i>thirst</i> for raw, intense chaos.  Dive-tackle a rival gangster, use him as a human shield, then leap through the window of his car and speed off into the sunset.  That's what Saints Row 3 brings to the table.

In its third iteration, Saints Row has optimized a lot of its gameplay mechanics, and it's really for the better.  You don't need to gather Respect to do story missions; rather, Respect acts as experience points, and higher levels open up new abilities for purchase.  As for the purchasing itself, that's done with cold, hard cash -- cash which you earn by doing missions, by completing activities, and periodically by virtue of owning property.  While buying and profiting off of the city was sort-of a sidequest in {{% game "Saints Row 2" %}}Saints Row 2{{% /game %}}, here it's front and center: if you want to buy new abilities, safehouses, weapons and upgrades, you've got to prime the money-pump with some real estate investment.

If there's any "point" to Saints Row: The Third, this is it -- taking over the city, not just figuratively, but financially.  It's a neat objective, albeit vague, and feels more like a <i>refinement</i> on the previous installment than a new, marquee feature.  You're not - as far as I know - at risk of your investments being taken away by your rivals, nor is it really a challenge to prioritize your acquisitions: higher cost = higher reward.  So the formula, as it were, for taking over Steelport is pretty straightforward.

But you get to wreak absolute havoc along the way, and that counts for a lot.

<i>Progress: 19%</i>