+++
date = "2004-05-01T07:00:03-07:00"
title = "Final Fantasy Tactics"
slug = "final-fantasy-tactics-2"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Final Fantasy Tactics"]
platform = ["PS1"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

Tactical RPG games combine strategic unit movement and timing with RPG attacking and magic use. It's a less recognized genre of games, to be sure, but certainly not one worth ignoring to any RPG fan. Along with changeable job classes ala {{% game "Final Fantasy V" %}}Final Fantasy V{{% /game %}}, Final Fantasy Tactics brings the Final Fantasy mythos and TRPGs together in glorious harmony.

Final Fantasy Tactics was published on the coat-tails of {{% game "Final Fantasy VII" %}}Final Fantasy VII{{% /game %}} - and while it may not have enjoyed as much publicity, it did receive a story and gameplay experience of magnificent quality as well. There still isn't much that can match FFT's execution of the TRPG.

The story of Final Fantasy Tactics takes on two aspects. The beginnings of the game's story are rooted in the power struggle of peasants and nobles. It raises many questions about class philosophy, and what is 'right' and 'just'. However, over time, the plot evolves into a story of life-threatening evil. It seems a little awkward at some points, but overall, it manages to work. Most characters' personalities are profusely detailed, each one clear in his or her ideals, and each one having distinguishable characteristics.

Tactical RPG staples of two-dimensional movement (along with the third dimension of height) and turn-based combat centered around a character's speed add new depths of strategy to classic swords-and-sorcery Final Fantasy gameplay. As with all TRPGs, battles can be long, but if you keep playing, you'll either get faster or get used to it. Every successful blow earns a character experience points for leveling up, and job points for learning new techniques in his/her job class. While not fighting, you'll be able to change a character's class and abilities (two offensive skill sets, one passive support skill, one reaction skill, and one movement skill). Once you get the hang of the job system and the game's 20 different classes, its strategic depth is almost limitless.

FFT's graphics aren't the best, but aren't half bad either. The level patterns are somewhat unclean, while the characters are nicely detailed, and the spell effects are a sight to see. Sound effects are fitting, as are the soundtrack's variety and excitement.

A first time through Final Fantasy Tactics will probably take between 20 and 30 hours. From furthering the story, to gaining levels and becoming more powerful (and learning entirely new and different abilities), FFT is one of those games that rewards a player for more time put into the game. There are also a few sidequests for more powerful items, for interesting and unique party members, or just for the sake of accomplishment.

Tactical RPG fans can't help but love FFT. Fans of Final Fantasy will enjoy seeing their favorite characters and spells in a new light (if a bit turned off by the complexity of the game). Combining classic role playing elements with a thinking man's game was a brilliant idea, and it was executed very well. If you don't mind the depth and breadth of Final Fantasy Tactics, give it a play.

<i>Progress: Complete</i>