+++
date = "2004-05-01T07:00:02-07:00"
title = "Final Fantasy VI"
slug = "final-fantasy-vi-2"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Final Fantasy III (SNES, Wii)" ]
platform = [ "SNES" ]
rating = [ "Awesome" ]
+++

Though some think life began with Final Fantasy VII, much of its genius was taken from (or is eclipsed by) its predecessor. Final Fantasy VI is highly regarded among those who've played it as the pinnacle of the Final Fantasy series, and one of the greatest RPGs ever made.

FFVI (as it was [known on Super Famicom](game:Final Fantasy VI), but was released as Final Fantasy III on the American Super NES, then [eventually title-corrected in 1999](game:Final Fantasy VI (1999)) as part of <game:Final Fantasy Anthology>) represents not only a glorious fusion of story and gameplay, but the quirky innovation that many Final Fantasies have come to be known for. FFVI has done things that modern RPGs still have yet to replicate.

Once, there was great magic, and the world prospered under its power; but there came magic wars, and the world was sundered, and nearly destroyed. Ages later, technology was rebuilt, and people lived well once more - but magic was a lost art. The megalomaniacal Empire, under the rule of the Emperor Gestahl and the command of Kefka, seeks to unlock this ancient power, and what begins as an attempt to overthrow the empire turns into a quest to save the world. FFVI has some of the greatest storytelling ever seen: almost every character has an interesting background, and their personalities shine throughout the game's epic twists and turns.

Each of the game's 14 potential party members has an entirely unique way of fighting, and they're all interesting twists on the battle mechanics themselves. This variety is further enhanced by what is still one of the most fleshed-out equipment systems in RPGs today, with not only weapons and pieces of armor, but special accessories that actually do something. Magical entities, Espers (which also play a role in the game's story), can be joined to characters to allow them to learn magic spells and enhance their abilities and statistics. Espers also serve as the game's summons. FFVI's gameplay is a greatly creative elaboration on the classic 2D Final Fantasy too great to summarize.

Despite age, the graphics are nothing to scoff at, especially considering how many things the game sometimes has moving around on-screen. Sound effects blend with the rest of the game fluidly. The music is superb, possibly the best of any Final Fantasy, with a widely diverse soundtrack for all sorts of occasions and situations.

FFVI's basic game length is easily a few dozen hours. Add to that tons of sidequests (a couple of those 14 party members are entirely optional), some minigames (like a combat colosseum), and more collectibles than you can shake a stick at (a number of the characters have blue mage-style techniques to learn), and the complete package is over 100 hours, no problem.

With a rich storyline, enjoyable and unique gameplay, and plenty of content, Final Fantasy VI is a fantastic game. It's a requisite item for any RPG fan's resume. Play it.

<i>Progress: Complete</i>