+++
date = "2013-09-24T20:48:06-07:00"
title = "Yeah, Trevor is the best ever."
slug = "yeah-trevor-is-the-best-ever"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Grand Theft Auto V"]
platform = ["Xbox 360"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

Sure, I have some complaints about GTA V.  The new police-chase system can be pretty aggravating, when the cops seem to have omniscient knowledge of where you are.  The radio soundtrack is somewhat weak compared to previous entries (what I wouldn't give for a Saints Row-style custom playlist).  Helicopters handle like total ass, even with maxed out flying skills.  The d-pad gets a bit overloaded with contextual controls.  Franklin's character development is a bit lacking.  And, simply put, there aren't as many heist missions as I'd like.

But these complaints don't stop the game from being a triumph, both as a Grand Theft Auto game, and as a piece of interactive entertainment in general.  The story it tells certainly isn't as inspiring or redeeming as {{% game "Grand Theft Auto IV" %}}Niko's{{% /game %}} or {{% game "Grand Theft Auto IV: The Ballad of Gay Tony" %}}Luis's{{% /game %}}, but it's chock-full of action, drama, variety, and conflict that will have you alternately despising and sympathizing with each of its protagonists.  And if you're ever tired of that business, you can always take in a race, or a strip club, or just drive (or fly) around the map.

Really, I'm only comfortable putting the game down now - with missions complete, but plenty of activities left - because I know I'll be revisiting it.  If not for the impending launch of Grand Theft Auto Online, then for the inevitable PC version, whenever that comes around.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Grand Theft Auto IV: The Ballad of Gay Tony" %}}Grand Theft Auto IV: The Ballad of Gay Tony{{% /game %}} (the previous-best GTA iteration)  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "Saints Row IV" %}}Saints Row IV{{% /game %}} (in terms of pure crazy-pants fun)  
<b>Oh yeah, and</b>: I may also have to come back once someone figures out the <a href="http://www.reddit.com/r/GrandTheftAutoV/comments/1n18jv/easter_egg_map_predicts_location_of_ufos_and/">crazy end-game easter eggs</a>.

<i>Progress: Finished the story, 76.8% complete.</i>