+++
date = "2011-07-17T22:52:34-07:00"
title = "Majin and the Forsaken Kingdom"
slug = "majin-and-the-forsaken-kingdom-5"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Majin and the Forsaken Kingdom"]
platform = ["Xbox 360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

I really should be playing this more.  Every time I'm in the Forsaken Kingdom, I have a pretty fun time of it: the combat still hasn't gotten any more sophisticated, but the world is consistently fascinating, and its environmental puzzle-solving is usually great, right up there with Legend of Zelda and Prince of Persia (although I frequently curse the imprecise jumping).  Boss battles are pretty well-done, too, with Zelda-style weak points that are actually a bit of a challenge to figure out.

Like I mentioned last time, the biggest issue with Majin isn't in its real-time gameplay, but in its big-picture objective.  From the beginning the plot is basically vacant, with nothing of substance other than the <i>question</i> of what happened to the kingdom.  As I'm proceeding through the ruins, more of the backstory is revealing itself - largely from the amnesiac Majin remembering bits and pieces of what forsook the kingdom in the first place - which would be a fine approach, if the mystery could be adequately and consistently strung along; but it simply isn't.  Consider what 2008's [Prince of Persia](game:Prince of Persia (2008)) would have been like without the frequent banter between the Prince and Elika: a wondrous world, filled with questions, but absent of answers.

So I really want to finish Majin while my fluctuating interest is still with it.  Which shouldn't be a problem, based on my progress so far -- two of the four-or-five major milestones in around 5-6 hours.

<i>Progress: Defeated B'alam</i>