+++
date = "2011-07-16T18:51:20-07:00"
title = "SpaceChem"
slug = "spacechem-4"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["SpaceChem"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

I've mentioned how SpaceChem's challenging, engaging mechanics (and great soundtrack) overcome its humble production values, but that isn't the reason I spent <i>so much</i> time in it.  SpaceChem's story mode has <b>49</b> missions - plus a few optional ones - distributed among three types: Research (single-reactor puzzles about micro-managing chemical compositions), Production (multi-reactor puzzles which add resource management and general complexity), and Defense (boss battles! which toss in some sensitivity to timing and real-time interaction).  Maybe 49 doesn't sound like a big number, but when you consider that many of the later missions have several parts and can take a few hours each, there's <i>a lot</i> to do.  Both the variety of content, and the sheer <i>amount</i> of it, is intensely impressive.

And then there's <i>also</i> ResearchNet, which is regularly updated with new designer- and user-generated puzzles.  These even use some base mechanics that aren't included in the campaign missions, like Fission.

This is a greatly entertaining and challenging puzzle game, and the content-to-dollars ratio is simply amazing.  Get it!

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Planet Puzzle League" %}}Planet Puzzle League{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "Portal 2" %}}Portal 2{{% /game %}}, if only because of <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AZMSAzZ76EU">JK Simmons</a>  
<b>Optimizing solutions is also pretty satisfying</b>: especially when I can make my friends' scores look bad.

<i>Progress: Finished all the campaign levels</i>