+++
date = "2011-07-24T21:31:05-07:00"
title = "Saints Row"
slug = "saints-row-3"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Saints Row (X360)" ]
platform = [ "X360" ]
+++

I'm not ashamed to say that the preview media for <game:Saints Row: The Third> has me <i>unreasonably excited</i>, such that I'm suddenly compelled to catch up with the five-year-old franchise.  And, honestly, in spite of the stilted and doughy character animation (that is, graphical symptoms of games early in the Xbox 360's life) and largely uninspired voice acting, I am legitimately interested in finding out more about their personalities and backstories.  But, in its meticulous love letter to the PS2-era Grand Theft Autos, Saints Row has made a few typos that I just can't get past.

While it's impressive how some of Saints Row's features showed a glimpse of what was to come in [GTA4](game:Grand Theft Auto IV), and in some ways cleaned up some of [San Andreas](game:Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas)'s rougher features, the driving controls and handling feel slightly <i>worse</i> than in [GTA3](game:Grand Theft Auto III).  The aiming is <i>certainly</i> much worse, with no zoom and no lock-on -- you aim what the camera is pointed at, and so you have to perpetually balance the mobility of the camera with the aiming sensitivity.  So while shooting at long-range can be difficult because the target is tough to center on, close-range can be just as difficult because there's so much relative movement.

What makes the antiquated controls more frustrating is that, unlike the story-driven mission sequences in GTA, in Saints Row you have to earn Respect to <b>unlock</b> the story missions -- where Respect is earned by doing tedious side-missions that, in a GTA, I'd typically do only once (if at all).  There's nothing going for these missions except the gameplay, which, as I've mentioned, is more than a little out of style.

Finally, while I was wrapping up a side-mission earlier - driving a drug dealer back to his home after a deal - the game crashed my Xbox.  Now, as shameful as this is, it isn't all that rare or difficult, especially in a sandbox game.  But what makes it a hard pill to swallow here, is that Saints Row predates the kind of auto-saving checkpoints that I've become intimately dependent on.  Unless I'm as careful as possible and frequently run back to home base to save, a crash means a considerable amount of lost progress.

So when I turned my Xbox off after the crash, I had two options: either go back into Saints Row, load my last save, and tolerate more tedious side missions to get back to the point where I could slog through the sloppy controls to progress the story; or, I could go to the game's <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saints_Row">Wikipedia page</a> and just read what happens.  If this was 2006, I might be more inclined to go with the first choice, but, <a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0584442/quotes?qt=qt0399218">time makes fools of us all</a>.

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- 3%</i>