+++
date = "2011-07-10T21:56:06-07:00"
title = "SpaceChem"
slug = "spacechem-6"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["SpaceChem"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

I'm still occasionally frustrated by the shortcomings of the puzzles' tools -- and by crashing bugs, which seem to have become almost commonplace in the more complicated multi-reactor stages.  But none of these issues were major enough to keep me from spending <i>so much</i> of my waking time in SpaceChem.  Between the increasing complexity of the inputs and outputs, the new puzzle elements (which continue to be introduced throughout most of the game), and new twists like pre-fabricated reactors, this game gets <b>difficult</b>; the last few worlds have seen me spending multiple hours on single puzzles.  And solving them feels <i>great</i>.  Not to mention the boss stages, which are really unique and feel like incredible applications of the puzzle mechanics.

I haven't gotten very good at optimal solutions: my solutions' running times are almost always <i>very significantly</i> higher than the leaderboard averages.  I'm not really sure how much of the difference is attributable to people crowdsourcing/copying the answers from YouTube, but I wouldn't doubt that I'm simply terrible at it.  Nevertheless, given the puzzles' difficulty, I still feel pretty proud of myself just for getting this far.

The story has, well, <i>progressed</i>.  There is an air of mystery about it yet, but it just isn't written to be very engaging.  I'm really more motivated by the challenge of the puzzles than I am by the plot.

<i>Progress: Just got to the last level</i>