+++
date = "2011-07-02T21:23:12-07:00"
title = "Sonic Generations"
slug = "sonic-generations-2"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Sonic Generations" ]
platform = [ "X360" ]
+++

So the whole <i>thing</i> of Sonic Generations is supposed to be that the levels can be approached in two ways -- by Retro Sonic, which plays more like the old Genesis Sonics (from a side-scrolling perspective, with jumping, etc.), or by New-age Sonic, which plays more like Sonic Adventure (with more cinematic sequences and rail-grinding and shit).  This <b>650 MB</b> demo, in addition to <i>expiring</i> in about a week, only has <b>one level</b>, and <b>only</b> the classic Sonic version.  What the what?

It does distinctly remind me of old Sonic games, and aside from a few unpolished bits, seems like a solid resurrection of Sonics past (for one level at least).  But that's all I can get out of this demo.  Maybe, at best, it's the same as previous Sonic games.  Any other doubts that a rational person would have about a new Sonic - that the formula has been newly tarted up by stupid bullshit, that the content becomes progressively lazier as the game goes on, that an insipid but overbearing story sours the whole experience - can't be addressed, because there simply isn't enough information here.

Maybe Sonic Generations will be good, maybe it won't be.  This five-minute demo is absolutely unhelpful.  In that respect, it might be the worst demo I've ever played.

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- Finished the free demo</i>