+++
date = "2011-07-23T20:41:34-07:00"
title = "Rush"
slug = "rush-4"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Rush"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Coming off of <game:SpaceChem>, I can't help but notice a few similarities in Rush -- well, one similarity, in that the puzzle conceit is getting objects from a source tile to a destination tile (while avoiding collisions).  Rush quickly differentiates itself, though, in its own nuances and greatly reduced complexity.  There are no chemical bonds or fusion reactions here, but you will have to run rolling blocks into walls to get them moving in the right direction, and throw in some stop-sign tiles to keep intersecting paths from becoming jammed up.

While the basic mechanics are pretty fun, it's a little aggravating that much of the game's increased difficulty comes in the form of timing issues -- that is, although some puzzles may have a few apparent "solutions," some won't work correctly because the level's pre-set pace causes some unpredictable collision.  So it's sometimes impossible to see if the solution will work without trying it first.  Given the simplicity of the movement tiles you can place, this makes some of the puzzles feel more like guesswork, moving the intersections around until the timing is right.

Regardless, much of the puzzling is still fun, and it's all wrapped in a very slick presentation.  Granted it's also a little short - each of the Easy/Medium/Hard difficulties has just 20 puzzles, and I've worked through <i>all</i> the Easy and Medium levels in about two hours - but for the price tag ($5), the low amount of content doesn't seem too bad.

<i>Progress: Finished all the Easy and Medium stages</i>