+++
date = "2014-03-15T13:52:10-07:00"
title = "Brings back that classic Lucasarts-adventure feeling."
slug = "brings-back-that-classic-lucasarts-adventure-feeling"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Broken Age" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Awesome" ]
+++

I've become sour on point-and-click adventure games.  What was once, in the early- and mid-90s, a favorite genre of mine; has, in more recent years, become a target for my disdain.  I'm cool toward the genre's celebrated resurgence under Telltale Games, in particular, as there's no love lost between me and [The Walking Dead](game:The Walking Dead: Season One) or <game:Puzzle Agent>.  So, having only received it as part of a <a href="http://www.humblebundle.com">Humble Bundle</a>, it was with no small amount of surprise that I found myself actively and thoroughly enjoying Broken Age.

In trying to understand this phenomenon, I certainly can't rule out the production values.  The game has a very pleasant, slightly eclectic art style; somewhat cartoonish, somewhat cloth-like, somewhat painterly.  And the stellar voice cast brings an impressive amount of talent to bear on the game's script.  But these values don't exist in a vacuum -- they bolster the impeccable craftsmanship on display throughout the game.  The art style underscores the adventure's two protagonists: young, and full of hope, but also full of uncertainty.  The voice acting drives home that all of the game's characters, even the least significant of minor NPCs, has a story and personality.  The character writing, the visual design, and the plotting all come together to form a world that isn't just fun and bewildering, but also sympathetic and relatable.

And thankfully, the gameplay mechanics at work here are honed to a very fine point.  There's no pixel hunting, and there are never any puzzles with completely inappropriate solutions; even the game's most oblique riddles can be answered simply by carefully considering the environment and your inventory.  Some players may find these puzzles too simple, but for me they were welcome respite from the incomprehensible absurdity I feel is typical of the genre today.

Although the first act of Broken Age is quite short - about two hours - it's full of enriched, high-quality content.  And the ending, especially, sets up a killer teaser for the game's second act -- whenever that might happen to be released.

You had my curiousity, Tim Schafer; but <i>now</i>, you have my attention.

<i>Progress: Finished Act 1.</i>
