+++
date = "2012-04-08T18:05:27-07:00"
title = "Super Mario 3D Land"
slug = "super-mario-3d-land-4"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Super Mario 3D Land"]
platform = ["3DS"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Man, there are a <i>lot</i> of tanooki tails in this game.  On Mario, on Bowser, on Goombas, on <i>Bullet Bills</i>; it's downright silly.  But 3D Land fully embraces this silliness, which forms part of its surprisingly unique personality.

Its general philosophy of level design is another facet of 3D Land's uniqueness; while the {{% game "New Super Mario Bros." %}}"NEW" Super Mario{{% /game %}} {{% game "New Super Mario Bros. Wii" %}}games{{% /game %}} are nostalgia-thick with modern twists, and the {{% game "Super Mario Galaxy" %}}Super Mario Galaxy{{% /game %}} {{% game "Super Mario Galaxy 2" %}}games{{% /game %}} are in <i>motherfucking space</i>, 3D Land's levels fit somewhere inbetween.  There's a healthy mix of old and new powerups; there are some sidescrolling segments, but mostly three-dimensional geometry; there are even Galaxy-style throwbacks where props are made from enlarged pixel art, or a 3D Mario finds himself juxtaposed in a 2D scene from an NES game.  The genuinely 3D perspective also allows for some cool levels which navigate on all three axes -- imagine a Galaxy level with more verticality.

On the other hand, since 3D Land is neither as nostalgically strong as NSMB, nor as epic and far-reaching as SMG, it really has its work cut out for it.  So far the game has done pretty good at justifying the 3DS; but it's not as great at justifying <i>itself</i>, at least not so much as other recent Mario games have done.  Its fresh take on the Mario formula is interesting, but not especially amazing.  At least, not so far.  I do have plenty of game left ahead of me.

<i>Progress: Finished World 2</i>