+++
date = "2014-06-04T22:07:45-07:00"
title = "Party Karting.  Kartying?"
slug = "party-karting-kartying"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Mario Kart 8" ]
platform = [ "WiiU" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

To start with, I hadn't really had much interest in playing Mario Kart again.  I played the hell out of earlier entries, and well, the series hasn't exactly reinvented itself in the last decade or so.  But <a href="http://www.metacritic.com/game/wii-u/mario-kart-8">everyone seems to agree</a> that Mario Kart 8 is fantastically fun, and they're ... mostly right!

I don't know how it compares to <game:Mario Kart 7> (which I never tried), but by now, 8 has become fully optimized as a party game.  You no longer have to unlock engine classes or features; unlockable characters and items mostly share statistics with the defaults; and even the unlocks are trivially easy, a simple matter of winning cups (it doesn't matter which) and collecting coins.  <s>Tracks don't really have shortcuts or other secrets to learn; after the first lap, you're basically an expert.</s>

<s>This isn't to say that there's absolutely no skill involved in the game, as clever tactics and extensive track experience will always yield a better performance.  But the bottom part of the curve has essentially been chopped off.  In a party setting, this is a really great thing, as everyone is on a fairly level playing field -- and since there's nothing vital to unlock, you can enjoy the breadth of the game right out of the box.</s>

<b>EDIT</b>: Since this post, I've ventured back into Mario Kart 8 a couple times, and - surprisingly, to me - <i>there are</i> tricky shortcuts hidden throughout many of the game's tracks.  They tend to be of the rough-terrain variety, e.g. you can only really take advantage of them with a mushroom or a power star -- which is exactly the kind of gradually-acquired track knowledge that lends the game further depth.  So that's pretty rad.  To return to my original point, there is a lack of scale in unlockable content, which is nice for some instant fun...

But these aspects interfere with the game's longevity, since there's little motivation to keep unlocking things, <s>or explore tracks further</s>.  <b>Outside</b> of a party setting, MK8 doesn't last long.

So, its appeal is highly contextual.  At its best, the game is some great fun (and to its credit, the online play feature is <i>surprisingly</i> well-implemented).  It just doesn't have much staying power.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Mario Kart Wii>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Mario Kart 64>, I think, although this is becoming more difficult to remember accurately.  
<b>Seriously, I'm amazed</b>: at how seamless and painless the online play is.

<i>Progress: Swept the 100cc cups, unlocked all the characters.</i>
