+++
date = "2014-04-26T16:11:15-07:00"
title = "A simulation of ... sitting in front of a window, and pushing buttons all day?"
slug = "a-simulation-of-sitting-in-front-of-a-window-and-pushing-buttons-all-day"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Euro Truck Simulator 2" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
+++

I consider myself a fairly <i>understanding</i> individual, ... at least as far as video games go.  I can get why someone would be interested in a high-intensity micro-management game, or a super-casual time-waster, or an annualized professional sports adaptation, even though I don't personally have any interest in those games myself.

But every once in a while, I come along a game that just <i>stumps</i> me.  A game which proves there are whole niches of developer and player interest that I don't understand at all.  Most recently, Euro Truck Simulator 2 became one of those games.

Racing, I can get.  General vehicular action, I actually enjoy (especially when property or pedestrians can be mowed down).  Even open-world exploration is something I can really get behind.  But Euro Truck Simulator 2 doesn't really tick any of those boxes.  You can drive... relatively slowly.  The world is mostly non-interactive (and non-destructible).  The map is based on real life, and overall pretty plain.  You can upgrade and customize ... a cargo truck.  Backing the truck up is an awkward challenge, accurately simulating the act of really backing up a semi trailer.

I just, don't.  I don't get it.

I have to thank my friend who gifted me this game, because otherwise I certainly never would have experienced it.  And sometimes I need humbling reminders like this.  There are things in this world that I really, truly do not understand.

<i>Progress: Basically none.</i>