+++
date = "2009-04-28T20:20:25-07:00"
title = "Crackdown"
slug = "crackdown-8"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Crackdown"]
platform = ["X360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

And just like that, I've cleaned up the city.  Yes, Crackdown is on the short side, and once all the criminals are gone, the city really isn't as interesting anymore.  Things you can do when you're finished fighting crime:

* Different difficulty levels (a hard mode, and a super-hard mode)
* Time trials, re-doing gang boss battles to try for a quick time score
* Checkpoint races, both vehicular and on-foot
* Two-player co-op
* Just resurrect the gang members and give it another go
* ...Achievements

To be fair though, Crackdown is the kind of game that Achievements were <i>made</i> for: marking your accomplishments not just for killing crime bosses, but for blowing up hundreds of cars, or climbing to the top of the city's tallest building.

I should note that, although I beat the game in three or four sittings, Crackdown isn't <i>that</i> short; probably south of 10 hours, but not by much.  Every time I sat down to play, I found it extremely difficult to put the controller down.  The compartmentalized nature of the gang boss encounters, combined with the fun of exploring the city, and the essentially-nil penalty for death (you go back to a respawn point), made the addiction unbearable.  If Realtime Worlds can replicate this kind of gameplay in an <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/APB_(video_game)">online multiplayer form</a>, all hope for humanity may be lost.

Anyway, I might work on my Driving stat - I've maxed out the other four already - but other than that, I think I'm pretty much done with this.  Then again, it is the perfect kind of pick-up-and-explode game that I could find myself playing again on a boring weekend.

<i>Progress: Finished on "Tough" difficulty (normal)</i>