+++
date = "2025-01-01T15:46:33.1513948-08:00"
title = "2024 in Review: Ah Shit, Here We Go Again"
category = [ "Site News" ]
+++
It's a new year, and you know what that means: a look back at *last* year and how my gaming habits have or haven't changed.  *They haven't.  Or ... have they?*

Well, I did glog about more games in 2024 (32) than I did in 2023 (20):

:::chart
type: "ColumnChart"
datafile: "/data/postsandgames_2024.json"
title: "Posts and Games"
legend: "{\"position\": \"bottom\"}"
:::

Though as the next chart shows, **replays** accounted for a sizeable chunk of that -- 14 games, *44%!*  I sampled so many remasters and multi-game collections (of remasters) last year that I felt the need to make [glog code changes](https://github.com/tsuereth/glog/pull/128) to better-organize posts about them.

(Fun Glog Facts: I replayed even more - 15 - back in [2020 in Review: Interesting Times]($SiteBaseURL$2021/01/01/2020-in-review-interesting-times/), and my "record" of 18 replays in [2017: Remastered]($SiteBaseURL$2018/01/01/2017-remastered/) still stands.)

:::chart
type: "AreaChart"
datafile: "/data/demosandreplays_2024.json"
title: "Games Demoed and Replayed"
legend: "{\"position\": \"bottom\"}"
isStacked: "percent"
pointSize: 5
focusTarget: "category"
:::

Several of those replays were specifically <platform:PS4>-to-<platform:PC> deals: <game:Uncharted 4: A Thief's End - Remastered> and <game:Uncharted: The Lost Legacy - Remastered> (as parts of the [Legacy of Thieves Collection](game:Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves Collection)), <game:Horizon Forbidden West>, and <game:God of War (2018)>.

All of them were enthralling adventures, and they all played great on my hardware, Forbidden West in particular happily eating up *tons* of my playtime.  [Silly PSN logins](https://www.msn.com/en-us/entertainment/other/god-of-war-ragnar%C3%B6k-is-the-latest-steam-review-victim-of-sony-s-pc-login-requirement/ar-AA1qVgWu) aside, Sony is doing pretty great by their PC releases.  I'll probably never need a <platform:PS5> after all.

I also replayed some less-recent titles last year -- originally from <platform:3DS>, <platform:NDS>, and even <platform:GBA>.

<game:Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney Trilogy> was a great high-resolution remaster of [2007's Apollo Justice](game:Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney), [2013's Dual Destinies](game:Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Dual Destinies), and [2016's Spirit of Justice](game:Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Spirit of Justice).  And while [my 2017 take on the last one]($SiteBaseURL$2017/04/07/keeping-justice-alive/) was down on its lack of creative gameplay, [my 2024 re-take]($SiteBaseURL$2024/05/08/the-ghost-of-ace-attorney-present/) appreciated its focus on a strong narrative.

The <tag:Castlevania> re-bundles <game:Castlevania Advance Collection> and <game:Castlevania Dominus Collection> were both really-well-made packages, for their part, especially Dominus's solution to the [DS games' multi-screen gameplay]($SiteBaseURL$2024/11/03/some-sweet-sorrow/).  The games themselves though, well, most of them haven't held up.

[2001's Circle of the Moon](game:Castlevania: Circle of the Moon) and [2002's Harmony of Dissonance](game:Castlevania: Harmony of Dissonance) were, I think, *fine at the time* (though even [in 2006 I lamented]($SiteBaseURL$2006/05/29/castlevania-harmony-of-dissonance-2/) Dissonance's poor audio).  [2006's Portrait of Ruin](game:Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin) was better remembered than re-played; in retrospect I think I appreciated its *amount* of content, more than the quality of that content.  [2008's Order of Ecclesia](game:Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia) ... well, even at the time, I was pretty <rating:Meh> about it.

But!  But, revisiting Soma Cruz's castle-dives, [2003's Aria of Sorrow](game:Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow) and [2005's Dawn of Sorrow](game:Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow), struck the right mechanical notes and still felt fun to play two decades later.  Though they do show their age, in terms of stilted storytelling and missing quality-of-life features -- stoking my desire for the next 'vania that I can only assume [IGA](https://artplayinc.com/about/) is working on.

Those remaster collections accounted for *most* of my 2024 replays, but for one outlier: <game:Voxelgram>, which I re-installed for the sake of some new DLC.  And I was pleasantly surprised to find post-release updates [added puzzles to the base game](https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/1158470/view/4963541146758479893), too.

Which is a great segue to the DLCs I played in 2024:

:::chart
type: "AreaChart"
datafile: "/data/gametypes_2024.json"
title: "Games by Type"
legend: "{\"position\": \"bottom\"}"
isStacked: "percent"
pointSize: 5
focusTarget: "category"
:::

That [Voxelgram DLC](game:Voxelgram: DLC #1 (Linux, PC)) was a treat, but most notable was surely <game:Horizon Forbidden West: Burning Shores>.  Even though its story couldn't top Forbidden West's (just like [Frozen Wilds](game:Horizon Zero Dawn: The Frozen Wilds) and [Zero Dawn](game:Horizon Zero Dawn) before it), Burning Shores nevertheless added some worthwhile side-missions and *Jurassic Park* references to Aloy's SoCal adventure.

Other expansions and DLCs I played in 2024 weren't very remarkable: Chloe and Nadine's Lost Legacy still counts as an expansion to Uncharted 4 (sort-of a technicality), and there were two Meh DLCs to the Meh [Saints Row reboot](game:Saints Row (2022)).  Let's talk more about that Meh-ness.

:::chart
type: "AreaChart"
datafile: "/data/ratings_2024.json"
title: "Ratings"
colors: "[\"gray\", \"red\", \"orange\", \"gold\", \"green\", \"blue\"]"
legend: "{\"position\": \"bottom\"}"
isStacked: "percent"
pointSize: 5
focusTarget: "category"
:::

Saints Row (2022) was, I mean, *playable* and even kinda fun! in parts.  It's just shocking to me how similar to, and **technologically inferior** to [2011's Saints Row 3](game:Saints Row: The Third) it ended up.  (Yeah, I considered glibly counting SR2022 as a "remaster" of The Third.  But [The Third's actual remaster](game:Saints Row: The Third Remastered) was better!)  Dinky little side-story DLCs [The Heist & The Hazardous](game:Saints Row: The Heist & The Hazardous) and [A Song of Ice & Dust](game:Saints Row: A Song of Ice & Dust) didn't help, despite how entertaining [the LARPing missions](https://www.ign.com/wikis/saints-row-2022/The_Dustmoot) were.

Other <rating:Meh> let-downs of 2024 included <game:NieR: Automata>, which *I think* has an interesting plot, but was a slog to get through; and <game:No Man's Sky>, whose [post-release redemption arc](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_Man%27s_Sky#Post-release_updates) just couldn't make up for boring, chore-ish gameplay.

There were even more <rating:Good> bright spots last year, though, like <game:Dave the Diver>'s amusing series of fish-related diversions; <game:Palworld>'s impressive (if rough) monster-wrangling-base-building hybrid; <game:Cat Quest III>'s light-hearted cat and pirate puns; and <game:Logiart Grimoire>'s hours and hours of soothing puzzle grids.

And though most of my <rating:Awesome> highlights in 2024 were replays of games that I already loved, there were a couple new stand-outs:

<game:The Talos Principle II> expertly expanded on its predecessor's gameplay and storytelling, I mean, I can't commend <tag:Croteam> enough for taking the risk of *populating* their post-apocalypse with NPC personalities.  And they did it!  The madmen, they managed to build some genuinely compelling characters here, characters who take this sequel's philosophy-informed narrative beyond the [brilliant original](game:The Talos Principle).

And <game:Baldur's Gate 3> - speaking of compelling characters - delighted the hell out of me with its intensely charming cast.  BG3's world is so richly detailed, so dense with enchanting content, that I played for [30 hours without realizing I was still in the first act!]($SiteBaseURL$2024/09/07/third-quests-the-charm/)

BG3 was such a great journey, and has so many choice-driven nooks and crannies to explore, I'm even considering a replay ... in a few years.

For 2025, though: what's on deck?  (Aside from <game:God of War Ragnarök>, which I'm already pretty deep into.)

Probably Talos 2's recent DLC, [Road to Elysium](game:The Talos Principle II: Road to Elysium), which I hope is less difficult for me to stumble through than [Road to Gehenna](game:The Talos Principle: Road to Gehenna) was.  And yet another bundle of remasters, <game:Ace Attorney Investigations Collection>, which I hope holds up better than [my Meh memory of the 2009 original]($SiteBaseURL$2010/02/28/ace-attorney-investigations-miles-edgeworth-4/).

I still haven't taken the plunge back into <game:Cyberpunk 2077> for its [Phantom Liberty](game:Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty) DLC, so, there's *another* replay on my docket.  Plus *yet more* kinda-recent remasters that may tickle my "replay" fancy, like <game:Resident Evil 4 (2023)> and <game:Ghost of Tsushima: Director's Cut>.

And <game:Satisfactory> has finally hit [its 1.0 release](https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/526870/view/4567301015235883039); if it at all resembles my experience with <game:Factorio>, that's likely to become an unhealthy obsession for some time.

Here's to another year of getting lost in exotic digital worlds, meeting eccentric characters, and writing flippant blog posts about them.
