+++
date = "2014-02-04T22:32:24-08:00"
title = "Ten Million ... what?  Levels?  Pixels?  Other games to play?"
slug = "ten-million-what-levels-pixels-other-games-to-play"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["10000000"]
platform = ["Android"]
rating = ["Bad"]
+++

10000000 has a few immediately-interesting things going for it.  It has a difficult-to-communicate title (see also: <game:VVVVVV>), it has a genre-bending hybrid formula, it has distinctive big-pixel graphics.  At a high level, [solving a puzzle to execute actions](game:Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords) is certainly a ... fascinating, idea.

Unfortunately the game has a foundational formula problem, which happens to be very similar to <game:Clickr>'s.  To wit: game progress is dependent on you being lucky enough to have the game give you the right tiles, in the right arrangement, to put the right thing together at the right time.  What's especially irritating about 10000000's puzzle mechanic, is that you can't just <i>put</i> like tiles together; when you 'slide' a row or column, you can only stop sliding if there's a direct match.  Some potential matches may appear simple, except that you can't perform a perpendicular move to complete them.  Unless you find an intermediary move to get closer, and then another incremental move, and another, and by then you've already passed the treasure chest or been killed by a skeleton or otherwise missed your opportunity.

Hey -- maybe I'm missing something.  I certainly didn't put enough time into the game to feel confident in my grasp of it.  But my impression is that 10000000's puzzle formula is predicated on making rapid, meaningless matches, without any sort of contextual strategy; and I'm completely unexcited about that.

<i>Progress: Basically none.</i>
