+++
date = "2010-07-03T19:45:56-07:00"
title = "Super Metroid"
slug = "super-metroid-4"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Super Metroid"]
platform = ["Wii"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Pre-Ridley, I was able to defeat most of Super Metroid's challenges by relying on how overpowered Super Missiles are (or, in Draygon's case, by reading <a href="http://www.gamefaqs.com/wii/942773-super-metroid/faqs/5669">the interweb</a> and discovering his actual weakness).  But Ridley isn't as much of a sucker - he requires you to be <i>very good</i>, which I'm not, or to be <i>very powered-up</i>.  So I took a lap around the map, collected all the energy tanks (again, with the interweb's <a href="http://www.gamefaqs.com/wii/942773-super-metroid/faqs/29221">help</a>), and was then able to tolerate Ridley long enough to actually kill him.

The extra HP also made Mother Brain kind of a pushover.  Ending was cool.  Could have done a better job of tying into the introduction, though.

Super Metroid exists at the tail end of the <b>punishing games</b> era: when frustration was to be expected, and the only workaround was to ask for help from someone who'd already done it.  But Metroid, as a franchise, shines brightest when the player is able to freely explore -- to discover secret areas without fear of losing track of the main objective; to experiment with a boss without fear of having to repeat lengthy gameplay sequences.  (Getting back to Ridley over and over again was pretty lame.)  Later Metroids have all done a fantastic job with this concept, and, I guess, they have Super Metroid to thank for pushing the original Metroid's formula in the right direction.  But it's hard for me not to see Super Metroid as a relic of a bygone era.

I also have a hard time forgiving the jumping controls.  They are just terrible.  Just, terrible.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Metroid" %}}Metroid{{% /game %}} (in its original NES incarnation)  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "Metroid Prime" %}}Metroid Prime{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Metroid Fusion" %}}Metroid Fusion{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Shadow Complex" %}}Shadow Complex{{% /game %}}  
<b>A {{% game "Metroid: Zero Mission" %}}Zero Mission{{% /game %}}-style remake</b>: would be pretty incredible

<i>Progress: ~7 hours, 78% items</i>