+++
date = "2010-07-04T22:06:45-07:00"
title = "LostWinds: Winter of the Melodias"
slug = "lostwinds-winter-of-the-melodias-3"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "LostWinds: Winter of the Melodias" ]
platform = [ "Wii" ]
rating = [ "Meh" ]
+++

When WiiWare debuted, <game:LostWinds> wasn't just a timely demonstration of what the service could offer -- it was a competent, even <i>fun!</i>, game.  Its inventive mechanics and visual charm handily overcame its simplicity and brevity.

Now, Wii games have become a little more sophisticated, and tiny independent games like LostWinds have become much more prevalent.  Is a sequel still engaging enough to hold the modern gamer's interest?  Well, yes and no.

Winter of the Melodias starts out strong, with something the original game lacked (as do most downloadable games): a compelling story hook.  It builds directly on the events of the first game, so if you haven't played that one, you might be a little lost; then again, the narrative takes a backseat as soon as the introductory segment is over, so you won't have missed much.

The gameplay, too, will be instantly familiar to LostWinds veterans.  Unfortunately, as of about halfway through <i>Melodias</i>, the second game's mechanics haven't really expanded on the first's at all.  The snow levels add the new trick of making and throwing snowballs, but that's about it.  I just got the ability to switch between Winter and Summer - and I believe, later on, I'll be unlocking some new wind powers - but so far, the gameplay feels pretty underwhelming.

One of this sequel's most welcome improvements is a <i>map</i>.  Navigation in the first LostWinds was significantly hampered by not being able to know your current location; <i>Melodias</i> tackles this with a simple nodal map, showing the area you're currently in, areas you need to find, and the relative location of paths that connect different nodes.  This doesn't really change the game, per se, but it does make it less frustrating and easier to jump into and out of.

I'm looking forward to some genuinely new gameplay soon, but for now, the LostWinds sequel isn't doing much (other than the map!) to differentiate itself from the original.

<i>Progress: Repaired Sonte's Bell</i>