+++
date = "2010-07-11T23:45:25-07:00"
title = "Br&uuml;tal Legend"
slug = "brutal-legend-8"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Br&uuml;tal Legend"]
platform = ["Xbox 360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

After getting to know the map and mechanics a little better, Br&uuml;tal Legend has grown on me.  The RTS parts of the game are pretty silly to start out, but once you apply some basic strategic technique - namely, stealing the enemy's resource nodes, and maintaining a front line - they aren't too bad.  The controls are pretty weird, but I think I'm finally getting used to them.

Br&uuml;tal Legend tries to do a lot -- an ambition {{% game "Assassin's Creed II" %}}prone to failure{{% /game %}}.  Luckily, Tim Schafer has ensured that the characters and dialog are witty and charming enough to hold everything up.  But the core design decision to generally remove a visual UI has me frustrated; the overworld <i>needs</i> heads-up display elements to more usefully indicate where I can go and what I can do.  Mini-maps aren't a new thing, guys.  As it is, I really doubt I'll bother with the majority of Br&uuml;tal Legend's <a href="http://images.roosterteeth.com/images/4ad50c58b5b55_bighugemap.jpg">assload of unlockables</a>.

Those aside, the game is pretty short, which is a bit distressing.  After four-and-a-half hours of playtime - which includes some amount of sidequesting and tooling around - I'm about three-quarters of the way through the campaign.  Actually, given the size of the game world, I get the impression that a much longer story was planned, but largely scrapped.

You've got to cut the cord <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brutal_Legend#Development_history">eventually</a>; but I think Br&uuml;tal Legend could really have benefited from one more year of development, and some intensive QA feedback, to polish up its many diverse elements.

As a side note, once I found out where to buy upgrades (which took entirely too long), I discovered the <b>most important</b> upgrade in the game: the <b>radio</b>.  Br&uuml;tal Legend has a <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brutal_Legend#Soundtrack"><i>stupid huge</i> soundtrack</a>, and banging around the surrealistic countryside with some rocking tunes is pretty awesome.

<i>Progress: Re-rebuilt the bridge with a cubic buttload of scaffolding</i>