+++
category = ["Site News"]
date = "2016-01-01T11:37:51-08:00"
draft = false
title = "2015: A Shameful Embarrassment of Statistical Failure"

+++

{{% abslink href="2014/01/01/2013-in-review-jumping-sneaking-and-dimension-shifting/" %}}In 2013{{% /abslink %}}, I glogged about playing 87 games across 151 posts.  And {{% abslink href="2015/01/01/looking-back-on-2014-promises-unfulfilled-schromises-schmunschmulschmilled/" %}}in 2014{{% /abslink %}}, 112 games in 145 posts.

In 2015, I only managed <b>29 games</b> in <b>53 posts</b>.

Sure, I'm in the best shape of my life, have an exciting new job, and even {{% abslink href="2015/10/24/glog-now-with-100-less-server-execution/" %}}rearchitected this blog{{% /abslink %}}.  But <i>at what cost?</i>

If there's any semblance of "theme" in my past year's gaming activities, it's re-treading old ground.  Despite my low game count overall, several of them were games I'd already played -- revisiting {{% game "Red Faction: Guerrilla" %}}Red Faction: Guerrilla{{% /game %}}, the remaster of {{% game "Shadow Complex Remastered" %}}Shadow Complex{{% /game %}}, the PC version of {{% game "Grand Theft Auto V" %}}GTA V{{% /game %}}, even {{% game "SpaceChem" %}}SpaceChem{{% /game %}} for some reason.  Not to mention {{% game "Broken Age" %}}Broken Age{{% /game %}}'s second half, and {{% game "StarCraft II: Legacy of the Void" %}}Legacy of the Void{{% /game %}} finally finishing off the StarCraft II saga.

And then there was {{% game "Assassin's Creed Rogue" %}}Assassin's Creed Rogue{{% /game %}}, which felt quite a lot like I was just playing {{% game "Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag" %}}Black Flag{{% /game %}} again.  And {{% game "Saints Row: Gat Out of Hell" %}}Saints Row: Gat Out of Hell{{% /game %}} -- but now I'm falling down a rabbit hole, aren't I.

Breakdown of games played last year:

* {{% platform "PC" %}}PC{{% /platform %}}: <b>26</b>
* {{% platform "Wii U" %}}Wii U{{% /platform %}}: <b>2</b>
* {{% platform "DS" %}}DS{{% /platform %}}: <b>1</b> <i>(still only {{% game "Mario &amp; Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story" %}}Mario &amp; Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story{{% /game %}} left)</i>

The good:

* {{% game "Grand Theft Auto V" %}}Grand Theft Auto V{{% /game %}} on {{% platform "PC" %}}PC{{% /platform %}} finally fulfilled the grand crime sandbox's destiny.
* {{% game "TIS-100" %}}TIS-100{{% /game %}} <i>(fucking hell, still in-progress)</i> provided me with a whole new way to hate my stupid monkey brain.
* {{% game "Wolfenstein: The New Order" %}}Wolfenstein: The New Order{{% /game %}} <i>(in-progress)</i> has, so far, been more satisfying than I expect a "simple" shooter to be.

The bad:

* {{% game "Assassin's Creed Rogue" %}}Assassin's Creed Rogue{{% /game %}}, a clearly-unfinished attempt to spin off of Black Flag, utterly disenchanted me with the entire Assassin's Creed franchise.
* {{% game "Broken Age" %}}Broken Age{{% /game %}}, though good overall, was a letdown in its second act.
* {{% game "The Magic Circle" %}}The Magic Circle (demo){{% /game %}}, which purports to lampoon game production cliches, was itself a game production cliche.

The ugly:

* {{% game "Batman: Arkham Knight" %}}Batman: Arkham Knight{{% /game %}} was a great game, but a {{% abslink href="2015/06/29/the-dark-blue-screen-of-death/" %}}technical travesty{{% /abslink %}}.
* {{% game "Oceanhorn: Monster of Uncharted Seas" %}}Oceanhorn: Monster of Uncharted Seas{{% /game %}} aped a lot of good Zelda features, but was also a bit of a technical mess.
* {{% game "StarCraft II: Legacy of the Void" %}}StarCraft II: Legacy of the Void{{% /game %}} was mechanically great, but made a mockery of its story.

Things I'm looking forward to in 2016:

* {{% game "The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask 3D" %}}Majora's Mask 3D{{% /game %}}, and all the other stuff I just didn't get to last year.
* {{% game "Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel" %}}Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Mad Max (2015)" %}}Mad Max{{% /game %}}, and the, like, ten million other on-sale games I just bought on Steam.
* Upcoming releases of {{% game "The Witness (2016)" %}}The Witness{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Rise of the Tomb Raider" %}}Rise of the Tomb Raider{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Uncharted 4: A Thief's End" %}}Uncharted 4{{% /game %}}, hopefully some kind of immortality serum.
