+++
date = "2007-01-23T22:25:38-07:00"
title = "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Justice for All"
slug = "phoenix-wright-ace-attorney-justice-for-all-4"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Justice for All"]
platform = ["DS"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

Case one is a crash course in remembering how to 'turn-about' a trial.  Case two is a mysterious foray into character depth.  Case three is on par with the difficulty in the first [Phoenix Wright](game:Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney)'s fifth (and final) case.  Case four?  A rollercoaster ride through evidence and testimony that even had this overanalytical player hoodwinked until a climactic revelation, and plot events that could bring a killer robot to tears.

It would be stupid to say Justice For All is dissimilar from its predecessor; but there is something more, too (and I'm not just talking about the much publicized Psyche-Locks).  The scripting, the investigative interviews (here's where the locks come in), and the mysteries are all a step above the first game in terms of challenge.  And since it still plays like a detective novel, the greater the challenge, the prouder you feel for figuring it out.

There isn't much else to say about PW2, except that <i>typoes plague this game</i>.  They're not in every dialog box, to be sure, but it is a very clear case of the staff relying on a spell-checking program and not actually doing proper proofreading (think <b>lots</b> of homonyms).  It's still not enough to lower my opinion of the game, but it is something I really hope someone got fired for regardless.

<i>Progress: Complete</i>