+++
date = "2011-04-19T23:49:39-07:00"
title = "Portal 2"
slug = "portal-2-3"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Portal 2"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

In evaluating Portal 2, it's easy to separate the game into its two modes - single-player and co-op - and, simply enough, both are great.  Just in distinct ways.

<game:Portal> was a grand experiment, short and sweet, expertly exploring its sole puzzle gimmick in clever ways, while garnishing the narrative with <a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0057012/">Strangelove</a>-ian black comedy.  Portal 2's co-op mode inherits all of that, but feels similarly experimental and <i>wild</i>.  The two-player campaign is brief, and, as with Portal, uses GLaDOS to enhance its strange, unique flavor; but with its impeccable puzzle/level design, and some ingenious innovations (I'd primarily cite holding Tab to see your teammate's perspective in real-time), is fantastically entertaining, while showing amazing potential for even more.  It's a fair bet that Portal 3 will push the multiplayer envelope even further, using the groundwork that's been set here.

While Portal 2's co-op is evocative of its predecessor's spunk and spirit, the single-player campaign is an overall evolution of the first game's promise.  I'll be honest -- in my short visits with [Half Life](game:Half-Life) and [HL2](game:Half-Life 2), I was unimpressed by Valve's infamous in-game storytelling.  Frankly, the story wasn't interesting enough, and the <i>telling</i> didn't feel like it was driving my experience.  But Portal 2 takes Portal's antagonistic narration and expository ambience, and runs with it -- runs with it <b>hard</b>.  I'm not completely on-board with the pacing so far - Stephen Merchant's delightful sidekickery is depressingly absent in the first few chapters, and I haven't even met JK Simmons yet - but the pre-existing rapport between GLaDOS and Chell really expands the story's potential, and GLaDOS exploits it, hilariously, at every turn.  The witty voice-overs, the detailed setting, and the jarring in-game events conspire beautifully to really sell the story.

Of course, this is all not to mention the game's new mechanical gimmicks: vortices, light bridges, bouncy and hyperspeed paint, and perhaps more that I haven't encountered yet.  Portal challenged the limits of its formula, and Portal 2 shows that there's always more to add.

The single-player is a near-perfection of the original game, and the co-op is a two-player experience that will invoke the same feelings you had playing Portal for the first time.  Also, your co-op robot can high-five your partner robot.  Or hug him.  Or fight him!  <i>They're robots</i>.  Awesome.

<i>Progress: Single-player: chapter 5, Co-op: finished</i>