+++
date = "2011-04-18T00:58:04-07:00"
title = "Magicka: Vietnam"
slug = "magicka-vietnam-6"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Magicka: Vietnam"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

It's more <game:Magicka>, with <i>more guns!</i>  And I would say that this is the end of the story, but to be truthful I'm actually overselling it.  The Vietnam "expansion" adds a total of two Challenges to the game, one of which is just another wave-based survival arena.  The other is the Vietnam mission, where your goal is to shoot some goblin-cong, destroy ammo caches, rescue POWs, and ultimately defend an extraction point until a rescue chopper rolls in.  It isn't integrated into the game's campaign mode, and other than a paragraph-long introduction from Vlad, isn't narrated or at all embellished with Magicka's game-industry satire.  I mean, not counting the fact that this is a Vietnam expansion.

There's a new magick in the form of an aerial napalm strike, which is <i>awesome</i>, but since the Vietnam mission is a challenge instead of a story mission, your other magicks (meteor storm, lightning, et al) are all unavailable.  Magic in general is harder to use, since all the enemies have <i>guns</i>, and, like the annoying bow-and-arrow assholes in the main campaign, keep interrupting your shit all the time.  That said, the gun selection that you can use - from the main game's M60 and other automatics, to bolt-action and burst rifles, and an RPG launcher - does put an interesting twist on the core gameplay.

It <i>is</i> more Magicka, but not very much more.  It's easy to say that $5 is a rip-off for what amounts to a single mission.  On the other hand, and this is a two-fingered hand, 1) the main game was already really cheap and 2) it's still only five bucks.

<i>Progress: Died at the end (too many mortars!)</i>