+++
date = "2009-11-15T16:22:59-07:00"
title = "Conan"
slug = "conan-4"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Conan (2007)"]
platform = ["X360"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

I'd forgotten to mention Conan's weapon-changing system, and there's a reason for that - it's very forgettable.  Defeated enemies drop their weapons, which Conan can then pick up and use, in four different combinations: a one-handed weapon, this plus a shield, two one-handers, or a two-handed weapon.  Each configuration has its own advantages and disadvantages (power and reach vs. defense and speed), and its own set of combos.  But different weapons <i>within</i> these parameters don't make any difference, as far as I can tell; and since you don't really get to choose what weapons are made available to you anyway, it's pretty much a moot point.

As with most beat-em-ups, Conan is least fun when you're surrounded and stunlocked, dying while unable to counterattack or even evade.  This comes to a head in the final boss battle, which is the most upset I've been with a video game since <game:Prototype>'s giant cancerous penis boss.  Fortunately, Conan's final boss has some mid-battle checkpoints thrown in, which just about makes up for its unnecessary quick-time events.

Other than this infuriating encounter, Conan is a thoroughly mediocre 6-7 hour experience.  It's a triumph for Ron Perlman's voice acting, and possibly a worthwhile piece of merch for a die-hard Conan fan, but has too many minor flaws (and not enough core competency) to be a good game.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Golden Axe: Beast Rider>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:God of War>  
<b>Unique selling point</b>: Rescuing topless maidens, who ask you to "Crush me with your love!" (Unfortunately, there is no "Crush w/ Love" move.)

<i>Progress: Finished on Normal</i>