+++
date = "2013-11-13T23:17:01-07:00"
title = "Mr. Bubbles!  Noooooo!"
slug = "mr-bubbles-noooooo"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["BioShock Infinite: Burial at Sea - Episode 1"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

Somehow, this first half of Burial at Sea is at once ambitious and lazy; simultaneously ham-fisted and limp.  If this DLC truly represents what Irrational can do in six months, within an existing framework and established mythoses (mythes?), I gotta say I'm disappointed.

From the outset, the episode is heavily evocative of <i>Chinatown</i>, as if to explicitly remind us that it's Ken Levine's favorite movie ever.  Hey -- I loved it too.  But a "homage" can only last so long before it becomes bitter and unwelcome.  The script has this same problem with its "inside" references to {{% game "BioShock Infinite" %}}BioShock Infinite{{% /game %}}, Elizabeth aloofly pounding references into the player's head.  Somehow, fortunately, the backdrop of {{% game "BioShock" %}}BioShock{{% /game %}} and Rapture is treated much more reasonably, with callbacks to Andrew Ryan and Frank Fontaine integrated organically into the plot.

A significant portion of the episode, the first 45 minutes or so, is spent in the thick of Rapture's thriving high-society; ladies and gents sip martinis and puff cigarettes as they wax philosophical on Randian ideals.  But this setting really isn't executed with the will it deserves.  Hardly any characters or events are interactive, or active at all -- only a small fraction of the NPCs even bother to have lines.  This is especially disappointing when compared to Infinite's opening in Columbia, which had similar ideas, but was much fuller with theme-appropriate banter and events.

After this initial distraction, it's back to business as usual, shooting and unleashing <s>plasmids</s> <s>vigors</s> <i>plasmids</i> on wacked-out splicers.  I lamented Infinite's descent into more rote, simple gunplay when compared to its predecessors, and this DLC episode is no different (well, one weapon is different, but I wouldn't even consider it worthwhile).  To its credit, the episode fosters a much more diligent play style by being more stingy with ammo than any previous BioShock.  At the same time, though, there are more <a href="http://www.giantbomb.com/monster-closet/3015-1205/">monster closets</a> here than in any other game I can recall.  Between these insufferable encounters, and some incredibly uninspired mission objectives, the gameplay experience on the whole is pretty dull.

To top it off, the ending is ... well, it's a few things, but none so much as baffling.  There is a bit of resolution for the episode's story, but the bigger point is a cliffhanger for the next one.  In its last moments, this dog of a DLC stands up on its hind legs, and barks out, "Stay tuned for more BioShock!"  Of course, I will.  But it's not leaving a great taste in my mouth.

Various outlets have quoted Burial at Sea - Episode 1 at a mere two hours; I managed to wring three out of it, using my tried-and-true take-forever-scouring-the-map-for-items tactic.  There are some optional collectibles to scavenge up, particularly some audio logs that touch upon the connections between BioShock and Infinite.  But I wouldn't call any of it surprising or compelling.

Ultimately, whether this first episode of Burial at Sea is worthwhile will depend on what the {{% game "BioShock Infinite: Burial at Sea - Episode 2" %}}second episode{{% /game %}} does to tie everything together.  For now, call me ... apprehensive.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "BioShock 2: Minerva's Den" %}}BioShock 2: Minerva's Den{{% /game %}} ... maybe.  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "BioShock Infinite" %}}BioShock Infinite{{% /game %}}  
<b>When you listen to Booker and Elizabeth back-and-forth like they're in an old movie</b>: You, too, might begin to wonder why Ken Levine isn't just writing a screenplay already.

<i>Progress: Complete.</i>
