+++
date = "2013-11-24T22:45:02-07:00"
title = "\"Meow what is so damn funny?\" \"I could have sworn you said meow.\""
slug = "meow-what-is-so-damn-funny-i-could-have-sworn-you-said-meow"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Super Mario 3D World"]
platform = ["Wii U"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

When I started playing {{% game "Super Mario 3D Land" %}}Super Mario 3D Land{{% /game %}}, I described it as a middle-ground between the simplicity and accessibility of {{% game "New Super Mario Bros." %}}New Super Mario Bros.{{% /game %}}, and the deeper and more intricate levels and mechanics of {{% game "Super Mario Galaxy" %}}Super Mario Galaxy{{% /game %}} -- and a fun experience, while it lasted, but ultimately not deep or varied enough to keep my attention.  If only the power-ups were more engaging, the levels were more diverse, and the narrative backdrop was at least <i>slightly</i> entertaining.  And if this hypothetical game was multiplayer to boot? well that would make up for the feeling of complacency in last year's {{% game "New Super Mario Bros. U" %}}New Super Mario Bros. U{{% /game %}}.  Yeah, in case this wasn't clear already, Super Mario 3D World is this hypothetical game; and yeah, it is pretty damned awesome.

Admittedly, I haven't tried the game solo yet, and the multiplayer Marios for {{% game "New Super Mario Bros. Wii" %}}Wii{{% /game %}} and {{% game "New Super Mario Bros. U" %}}Wii U{{% /game %}} were a lot less exciting without friends.  So I'll need to tackle this question at some point.

But even as a team, 3D World <i>feels</i> more like a good 3D Mario game.  Being in three dimensions, you'll almost never find yourself fighting with other players just to move forward (unless you <i>intend</i> to); and the levels are littered with optional warp pipes, warp blocks, and green stars - though you will need some of these - which support a greater sense of variety and non-linearity than other recent Marios.  It's a bit of a shame that, while you can run around the overworld map freely, there isn't anything to do except select levels; but, this is at least more fun than a regular menu.

The much-vaunted cat power-up shows up a lot, but manages to avoid wearing out its welcome: climbing walls feels like a genuinely transformative Mario move, and many levels are designed with verticality specifically for it.  I haven't picked up as many Double Cherries as I'd like; rampaging around with an army of jumping clones is one of the best Mario powers yet, right up there with the Godzilla-sized Mega Mushroom (which also reappears in 3D World).

This is a great Mario game, and a great party game -- and the Wii U's best attempt yet at a serious killer-app.

<i>Progress: Bowser's Funland</i>