+++
date = "2010-11-29T01:38:59-07:00"
title = "Transformers: War for Cybertron"
slug = "transformers-war-for-cybertron-3"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Transformers: War for Cybertron"]
platform = ["X360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

The most surprising thing about War for Cybertron, given that it's a Transformers-flavored <game:Gears of War> clone, is that there's no snap-to-cover function.  What's up with that?  I mean, I'm as upset as anyone when there's <i>[nothing](game:Eat Lead: The Return of Matt Hazard) [more](game:Quantum Theory)</i> to a game than cover, but it's 2010 -- you can't make an Unreal Engine shooter and just <i>forget</i> to implement a contextual cover system.  That's <i>weird</i>.

With that said, War for Cyberton feels like most pre-Gears shooters, and in that company it doesn't do bad for itself.  The "gimmick" here is obviously that you can <i>transform</i>, though with the exception of the one jet-flying level I've done so far, it doesn't really integrate into the gameplay at all.  Aside from that, there are also some special "energon"-powered abilities each character can use, but since they're balanced for competitive multiplayer, they don't feel very effective for campaign use.

So War for Cybertron ends up being a passable shooter that, while somewhat behind the times, <i>looks</i> really good.  What sells this game is how detailed and fluid the hyper-mechanical art direction looks, and how well it integrates with the whole Transformers motif.  Some of the voice acting could be better - except for Peter Cullen as Optimus Prime, which couldn't possibly be any better, obviously - but in general the presentation is pretty fantastic.

<i>Progress: Chapter 8</i>