+++
date = "2019-01-01T10:06:46-08:00"
title = "2018 in Review: The Future Is Soon"
category = ["Site News"]
+++

Last January, {{% abslink href="2018/01/21/early-access-late-release/" %}}I posted about{{% /abslink %}} eight oft-delayed games that had been sitting in my {{% abslink href="upcoming/" %}}"upcoming" list{{% /abslink %}} for a number of years.  And - much to my surprise - <i>four</i> of them finally managed to be released in 2018.

The results were ... let's say, "mixed."

* My hopes for {{% game "Chasm" %}}Chasm{{% /game %}} were low going in, but I was still disappointed with just how <i>uncharismatic</i> it was.  An absent story, boring (procedural) level design, and flat combat mechanics left me with no reason to keep playing it.

* {{% game "CrossCode" %}}CrossCode{{% /game %}} was, at least, extremely memorable.  Some of its systems and ambitions were really cool, and the production values were surprisingly good -- I just hated how slow-paced and filler-stuffed the final package was, and how hostile the difficulty curve became.

* {{% game "Shaq Fu: A Legend Reborn" %}}Shaq Fu: A Legend Reborn{{% /game %}} <i>did</i> end up being a joke, but not a very good one.  At least I got some {{% abslink href="shaqfu-alegendreborn_notenoughmoney.jpg" %}}fun screenshots{{% /abslink %}} out of it.

* Miraculously, {{% game "Timespinner" %}}Timespinner{{% /game %}} was <b>actually good</b>.  I had a few gripes about its storytelling, and its Igavania inspirations were <i>blatant</i>, but the game was well-executed and I seriously enjoyed playing it.

As for the other four titles, they appear to still be plodding along.

* {{% game "A.N.N.E." %}}A.N.N.E.{{% /game %}} released a backer-only demo in December, so <i>maybe</i> it'll actually make progress, this year.

* {{% game "Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night" %}}Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night{{% /game %}} put out a {{% game "Bloodstained: Curse of the Moon" %}}spin-off game{{% /game %}} (weird, right?), but was delayed again to 2019.

* {{% game "Factorio" %}}Factorio{{% /game %}}'s roadmap is pushing it <i>at least</i> through a good chunk of 2019, now.

* And {{% game "Indivisible" %}}Indivisible{{% /game %}} is <a href="https://indivisiblegame.com/2018/12/11/locking-down-orders/">looking pretty good</a> to release soon, ... but then again, Shaq Fu was saying that for like, two years.

On the subject of year-on-year disappointment -- let's look at the Glog stats from 2018!

{{< chart type="ColumnChart" datafile="/data/postsandgames_2018.json" title="Posts and Games" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" >}}

2017's games-played count was pretty high, and I failed to reach that same bar in 2018.  But, hey, not bad.

A lot of that 2017 count came from replays, including remasters.  And even though one of each ({{% game "Ōkami HD" %}}Ōkami HD{{% /game %}} and {{% game "Diablo III" %}}Diablo III{{% /game %}}) carried over into 2018, I didn't end up replaying much, last year.

{{< chart type="ColumnChart" datafile="/data/demosandreplays_2018.json" title="Games Demoed and Replayed" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" >}}

Reiterating my previous praise, Ōkami's HD facelift was <b>gorgeous</b>, and its beauty really helped overcome some of the game's more awkward components.

The {{% game "Shadow of the Colossus (2018)" %}}Shadow of the Colossus{{% /game %}} remake didn't age <i>quite</i> as well, due to its sprawling yet barren world, but taking down colossi was still a blast -- especially at a stable framerate.

{{% game "Red Faction: Guerrilla Re-Mars-tered" %}}Red Faction: Guerrilla Re-Mars-tered{{% /game %}} has a brilliant name, but the game itself is suffering from the ravages of time.  (The world needs a <i>new</i> drive-trucks-through-buildings game.)

Compared to all those, the high-def re-release of {{% game "Vanquish" %}}Vanquish{{% /game %}} felt like a misfire.  It wasn't enough of a visual spectacle, compared to today's games, to distract from its sometimes-broken mechanics and its always-dumb story.

I'm kinda sad at {{% abslink href="2018/01/11/demon-clicker/" %}}what happened to Diablo III{{% /abslink %}}.  People have told me that it's a fun game to come back to over and over, but the re-balancing they've done - to emphasize seasonal endgame grinding, I guess - turned it into a total bore, for me.

And {{% game "Portal 2" %}}Portal 2{{% /game %}} is still good.  Not as revolutionary as back in 2011, but Cave Johnson is a timeless treasure.

On to DLCs.  My 2017 included a lot of them, largely thanks to {{% game "Borderlands 2" %}}Borderlands 2{{% /game %}}; 2018 was more tame, although still substantial.

{{< chart type="ColumnChart" datafile="/data/gametypes_nomain_2018.json" title="Games by Type (except Main Game)" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" >}}

I guess that {{% game "Thronebreaker: The Witcher Tales" %}}Thronebreaker: The Witcher Tales{{% /game %}} is considered a "Standalone Expansion" for the {{% game "Gwent: The Witcher Card Game" %}}Gwent{{% /game %}} digital CCG.  Thronebreaker was pretty great, albeit lacking the narrative heft of Geralt's own adventures.

Speaking of, the {{% game "The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt" %}}Witcher 3{{% /game %}} expansions {{% game "The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt - Hearts of Stone" %}}Hearts of Stone{{% /game %}} and {{% game "The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt - Blood and Wine" %}}Blood and Wine{{% /game %}} were highlights of my year.  I just ... can't effuse enough about Witcher 3.  Though I will still do more effusing later in this post.

While it took me some time to get around to them, the {{% game "Deus Ex: Mankind Divided" %}}Deus Ex: Mankind Divided{{% /game %}} DLCs {{% game "Deus Ex: Mankind Divided - System Rift" %}}System Rift{{% /game %}} and {{% game "Deus Ex: Mankind Divided - A Criminal Past" %}}A Criminal Past{{% /game %}} did end up feeling worthwhile.

{{% game "Horizon Zero Dawn: The Frozen Wilds" %}}Horizon Zero Dawn: The Frozen Wilds{{% /game %}} was fine, I mean, it was <i>good</i>, but paled in comparison to the main game.

The {{% game "Rise of the Tomb Raider: Baba Yaga - The Temple of the Witch" %}}Baba Yaga{{% /game %}} mid-story DLC for {{% game "Rise of the Tomb Raider" %}}Rise of the Tomb Raider{{% /game %}} wasn't "bad," but felt ineffective and unnecessary.  (Not unlike the game overall.)

{{% game "Diablo III: Reaper of Souls" %}}Diablo III: Reaper of Souls{{% /game %}}'s Act V did <i>not</i> redeem the tedious grind that the main game has become.

And {{% game "Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel - Claptastic Voyage" %}}Claptastic Voyage{{% /game %}} doubled down on the mistakes of {{% game "Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel" %}}Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel{{% /game %}}, to the extent that I couldn't be bothered to finish it.

Moving on to platform variety...

In 2017 I played games on seven different platforms, retiring my {{% platform "DS" %}}DS{{% /platform %}} and {{% platform "Wii U" %}}Wii U{{% /platform %}}.  My platform activity in 2018 was less varied, covering only four, including the ever-predominant PC.

{{< chart type="ColumnChart" datafile="/data/gameplatforms_nopc_2018.json" title="Games by Platform (except PC, and those with zero games in 2018)" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" >}}

{{% game "Paper Mario: Sticker Star" %}}Paper Mario: Sticker Star{{% /game %}} was almost certainly the last thing my {{% platform "3DS" %}}3DS{{% /platform %}} will ever see.  Not a great send-off, unfortunately.  But, the system overall had a pretty good run.

My {{% platform "PS4" %}}PS4{{% /platform %}} is still going strong, with {{% game "Shadow of the Colossus (2018)" %}}Shadow of the Colossus{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Horizon Zero Dawn" %}}Horizon Zero Dawn{{% /game %}}, and {{% game "God of War (2018)" %}}God of War{{% /game %}} this past year; and {{% game "The Last Guardian" %}}The Last Guardian{{% /game %}} and {{% game "Marvel's Spider-Man" %}}Spider-Man{{% /game %}} still to come.

Something that stands out about this graph is the <i>lack</i> of {{% platform "Switch" %}}Switch{{% /platform %}} on it.  I have some plans for Switch gaming next year - a replay of {{% game "The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild" %}}Breath of the Wild{{% /game %}}, some challenge-based unlocking in {{% game "Super Smash Bros. Ultimate" %}}Super Smash Bros. Ultimate{{% /game %}}, and maybe I'll try out {{% game "Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle" %}}Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle{{% /game %}} - but, after finishing {{% game "Super Mario Odyssey" %}}Super Mario Odyssey{{% /game %}} in 2017, the system hasn't really commanded my attention.

Speaking of Odyssey, it was one of fairly few games that I rated "{{% rating "Awesome" %}}Awesome{{% /rating %}}" in 2017.  In 2018, despite playing less games overall, more of them felt Awesome to me.

{{< chart type="ColumnChart" datafile="/data/ratings_2018.json" title="Ratings" colors="[\"gray\", \"red\", \"orange\", \"gold\", \"green\", \"blue\"]" legend="{\"position\": \"bottom\"}" >}}

{{% game "Middle-earth: Shadow of War" %}}Middle-earth: Shadow of War{{% /game %}}, like its predecessor, wasn't revolutionary but was a shit-ton of orc-murderin' fun.  {{% game "Prey (2017)" %}}Prey{{% /game %}} had some imperfections and annoyances, but blew me away with its mechanical depth and interactive world.  {{% game "Horizon Zero Dawn" %}}Horizon Zero Dawn{{% /game %}} needed a better inventory system, but had plenty of thrilling combat, and an <i>amazing</i> story.

And {{% game "God of War (2018)" %}}God of War{{% /game %}} expertly immersed me in its rich mythos and charming characters.  It's easy for me to see why this game won so many "best of 2018" awards.

But the best thing <i>I played</i> last year was definitely {{% game "The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt" %}}The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt{{% /game %}} and its aforementioned expansions.  In addition to being a more acccessible, more exciting, and more <i>stable</i> iteration on {{% game "The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings - Enhanced Edition" %}}Witcher 2{{% /game %}}, Wild Hunt achieved something that few games have: it made my story choices feel both meaningful, <i>and</i> interesting.

God of War, Horizon Zero Dawn, and Witcher 3 all impressed me with incredibly well-built worlds and well-told stories.  But where most choice-based games fall into a trap of making one option "correct," and the others narratively unfulfilling -- Geralt's story was rewarding throughout, regardless of how I played it.

So what's on the docket for 2019?

Well, if they actually make it this year, maybe those other four long-delayed games.  I'm unsure about {{% game "Rage 2" %}}Rage 2{{% /game %}}, but it's starting to look like a more zany and fun take on {{% game "Mad Max (2015)" %}}Mad Max{{% /game %}}.  And it's <i>possible</i> that {{% game "Crackdown 3" %}}Crackdown 3{{% /game %}} will turn out okay.

If I'm smart enough, hopefully I can finish {{% game "Alchemia" %}}Alchemia{{% /game %}}.  There's all that Switch stuff I mentioned, above.  I've still got a deep, <i>deep</i> backlog, particularly in terms of PC RPGs.  And it's been a while since I replayed {{% game "Sleeping Dogs" %}}Sleeping Dogs{{% /game %}}, {{% game "The Saboteur" %}}The Saboteur{{% /game %}}, or {{% game "Chrono Trigger" %}}Chrono Trigger{{% /game %}} (whose PC re-release has been calling out to me).

And, maybe if I get tired of waiting for the inevitable PC version, I'll consider picking up {{% game "Red Dead Redemption 2" %}}Red Dead Redemption 2{{% /game %}}.

Here's to a joyful and game-ful 2019!

Footnote: The {{% abslink href="2004/01/07/mario-kart-double-dash-2/" %}}first Glog post{{% /abslink %}} will turn <b>fifteen years old this week</b>.  Wild, right?
