+++
date = "2008-10-20T20:15:35-07:00"
title = "Chrono Trigger"
slug = "chrono-trigger-9"
category = ["Looking Forward To It"]
game = ["Chrono Trigger"]
platform = ["NDS"]
+++

As much as I love Chrono Trigger, I am personally against buying things I already have.  So I'm glad my new Nintendo Power gave a quick run-down of the DS remake's new features.  Touch controls - sure, cool idea.  Animated scenes from the Playstation remake?  <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hOmgIZZuI68">Meh</a>.  A "modified" translation, and a monster recruitment/battle feature?  Blech.

But then they had to go and mention the new dungeons, and a new <i>town</i>.  So much for my $[Chrono Trigger DS MSRP].

The extra dungeons are hardly a surprise, as they were hinted at when the game was first announced.  But listen to this:

<i>Halfway through the game, mysterious portals appear in prehistoric times and in the middle ages, both leading to an area called the Lost Sanctum.  Consisting of a village, several field areas, and two full-fledged dungeons, the Lost Sanctum adds hours of fresh gameplay through multiple side quests that intertwine between the two areas.

Three additional Dimensional Vortex bonus dungeons open up once you've completed Chrono Trigger's main quest.  We don't want to spoil everything, so we'll leave it at this: the dungeons feature new items, enemies, and bosses, and one of them even incorporates a fabled "lost" area that was reportedly planned for Chrono Trigger's initial release.  Conquer all three Dimensional Vortices and you'll get the opportunity to square off against a brutal new final boss and witness a new ending (bringing the total ending count to more than 13).</i>

!!!