+++
date = "2013-07-23T00:14:10-07:00"
title = "Gunnin' and Slingin'"
slug = "gunnin-and-slingin"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Call of Juarez: Gunslinger" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Awesome" ]
+++

Not that I have a terrible amount of experience with the sub-genre -- but Gunslinger, to me, represents the epitome of the arcade-style shooter.  The action is quick, and combos and special shots have you shooting for a high score; not for its own sake, but for improving your character's abilities.  And it's all driven by a tightly-written, rapid-fire narrative that - predictable as it can sometimes be - keeps the moment-to-moment thrills coming.  This isn't the best writing in games, but it's got plenty of good going for it, and Silas Greaves tells it with inimitable character.

Granted, the order in which Greaves's stories are told doesn't always feel right, hinting that some segments were left on the cutting room floor.  But the whole affair is paced quickly enough that you'll hardly have time to notice.  This is the game's true victory: it doesn't waste your time.  (Except in the duels, which are pretty much a total waste of time themselves.)  Take Call of Juarez: Gunslinger for what it is - the video game version of a great and fanciful western movie - and you'll be hard-pressed to find better.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:BioShock>  
<b>You'll know the game is something special</b>: when you wonder if Silas Greaves was inspired by Jeff Bridges in the <i>True Grit</i> remake.

<i>Progress: Finished on Hard.</i>