+++
date = "2013-07-27T14:11:51-07:00"
title = "The fuck is a planktid?"
slug = "the-fuck-is-a-planktid"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Luminesca"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

On the one hand, Luminesca is <a href="http://www.luminesca.com/">explicitly</a> early in development.  Only two of a planned five chapters are currently available, and if you look at some early videos, you can see how dramatically the game design has changed already.  On the other hand, even for having a presumed 40\% of its content, there's very little here: each current chapter lasts only a few minutes, and there's barely a hint of challenge, or even intrigue, in either of them.  The gameplay mechanics are extremely shallow -- you can move in two dimensions, and you can shine a light in an arbitrary direction, which occasionally activates an item.  Sometimes you have to lead a glowing "planktid" toward a switch, guiding it through parts of the level.  It's all remedial stuff.

What Luminesca has going for it, though, is its beautiful style - think a more pleasant, but still <i>dark</i>, version of <game:Insanely Twisted Shadow Planet> - and how generally relaxing it is.  More so than <game:Aquaria> or even <game:Ecco the Dolphin>, Luminesca's soothing underwater atmosphere has no real trace of stress or strife.  Again, this is arguably a bad thing in terms of the game's interactivity, but it makes for an <i>agreeable</i> lazy afternoon activity.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Dear Esther>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Unmechanical>  
<b>Of course</b>: I'll still plan to revisit the game when it's more complete.

<i>Progress: Finished Chapter 2.</i>
