+++
date = "2013-07-27T16:23:43-07:00"
title = "Newtonian physics: boring."
slug = "newtonian-physics-boring"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["The Bridge"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

The biggest mistake The Bridge makes is making itself out to be some sort of {{% game "Antichamber" %}}Antichamber{{% /game %}}-esque, reality-defying puzzle-platformer.  Its M. C. Escher-inspired aesthetics certainly suggest some brain-twisting puzzle mechanics.  But in execution, it's actually much simpler -- in addition to walking left and right, you can rotate the world, clockwise and counter-clockwise, to alter the direction of gravity.  You'll use this power to guide your way through some simple obstacles, and move others out of your way.  And, there are some additional mechanics later on: color switching, which is cool but underutilized; and controlling an alternate plane of gravity, which again is rarely of importance.

And that's the other problem with The Bridge.  Not only is the total puzzle count small, but the number of actually-challenging puzzles is even remarkably smaller.  Short games are one thing, but this isn't as dense and solid as something in the vein of {{% game "Braid" %}}Braid{{% /game %}} or {{% game "Limbo" %}}Limbo{{% /game %}}.  It's just short.

The Bridge isn't <i>bad</i>, really.  If you like puzzles, there are some in here.  But it really underdelivers, both on content and on its alleged premise.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Luminesca" %}}Luminesca{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "Closure" %}}Closure{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Braid" %}}Braid{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Antichamber" %}}Antichamber{{% /game %}}  
<b>Really could have used</b>: more than one music track.