+++
date = "2013-04-27T17:26:59-07:00"
title = "Sleeping Dogs: Wheels of Fury"
slug = "sleeping-dogs-wheels-of-fury-2"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Sleeping Dogs: Wheels of Fury"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

The Wheels of Fury pack occupies a slightly wacky middle-ground between "fuller," story-driven DLCs like [Nightmare in North Point](game:Sleeping Dogs: Nightmare in North Point) and [Zodiac Tournament](game:Sleeping Dogs: Zodiac Tournament), and the litany of piddly little weapon/costume packs available for <game:Sleeping Dogs>.  Wheels of Fury adds a supercar that's blazing fast, stops on a dime, and has <i>roof-mounted machine guns</i> -- but before you can drive it around freestyle, you have to complete a series of missions to obtain and upgrade it.  These missions are brief but varied, and culminate in a twist on the game's existing race missions, by allowing - nay, encouraging - you to shoot at your opponents.

There are no big fancy cutscenes to ring in this supercar, but somehow this feels more appropriate than the other, comparably pompous DLCs (and with how anemic those packs are, the Wheels of Fury missions actually stack up pretty well).  And ultimately you end up with a <i>car with guns on it</i>, which feels pretty worthwhile.

The full price of $4 still feels a little excessive, but much fairer than $7 for two hours of ghost zombies.  If you're going to buy some Sleeping Dogs DLC, this might be your best value proposition yet.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Sleeping Dogs: Nightmare in North Point>, <game:Sleeping Dogs: Zodiac Tournament>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: ... real DLC  
<b>Jury's still out on</b>: <game:Sleeping Dogs: Year of the Snake>, which I'll be getting around to soon enough.

<i>Progress: I have a supercar!</i>