+++
date = "2007-11-11T01:20:00-07:00"
title = "Super Mario Galaxy"
slug = "super-mario-galaxy-5"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Super Mario Galaxy"]
platform = ["Wii"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

At first, Galaxy seemed distinctly unlike previous Mario outings; even {{% game "Super Mario Sunshine" %}}Sunshine{{% /game %}} had some areas that resembled sidescrolling with a third dimension, but Galaxy puts <i>everything</i> into a gravity twisting multidimensional planetoid.  However, as I played on and got more used to Galaxy's mechanics, it started to feel much more familiar.  The spirit of Mario, its breadth of available challenge, its demand of attentiveness and precise reaction, is all here.  Though the gameplay is totally different, the feel of it is the same.

Here's how it works: the central hub world is Rosalina's Observatory (Peach's Castle).  It contains several domes (floors), which must be unlocked by defeating Bowser and his bratty kid in a series of encounters.  Each dome allows access to a number of galaxies (paintings), with a number of missions for stars, more galaxies becoming unlocked with more stars.  At 60 stars you can face Bowser in a final battle, and there are 120 stars in the game.  {{% spoiler %}}And after finishing the game with all 120, you unlock Super Luigi Galaxy, where you can start all over again!{{% /spoiler %}}

Getting 60 stars is simple enough, and while final Bowser is admirably challenging for a Mario end boss, most players should be able to accomplish it.  But as with its predecessors, getting all 120 is rather trying, with a whole slew of them being quite difficult, and a handful of those, damn near impossible.

Gathering stars is rewarding not only for the sake of accomplishment, but for simply getting to experience the great depth of content Galaxy offers.  There are 15 full-fledged galaxies with about six stars each, and another 25 bonus galaxies with one apiece; and though some borrow themes from others (for instance, two bee forests, and two penguin beaches), they are all designed to be incredibly unique.  There is an astonishing <i>amount</i> of level design in Galaxy, and it's all top notch.

As far as the narrative goes, don't let Rosalina's "past [...] shrouded in mystery" fool you.  This is (thankfully) just as meaningless as the story of Sunshine or Mario 64.  There is some unimportant backstory to go along with it, and about fifteen seconds of spotty voice acting, but the only thing really worth noting in Galaxy's "story" is that Bowser is fucking evil!  The last few years of games have painted Bowser as sort of a bumbling oaf, but in Galaxy he really means business.

And the soundtrack?  Just as awesome as I had hoped.  Remixes of old themes, great new compositions, and a dash of orchestrated magic thrown in make Galaxy sound incredible.

I hate to complain, but I <i>must</i> call out Galaxy's disorienting controls.  I'm not talking about the learning curve, which exists, but is fine alongside the development of the game.  The problem is that in select scenarios, e.g. with small planetoids and in claustrophobic water chambers, orientation and camera movement are totally bogus.  The vast majority of the game is fine, and in fact I am endlessly impressed by how well it is pulled off; the game's demands upon a control and camera system are immense.  But there are points where even the best they could possibly do isn't good enough.

Anyway, that shouldn't stop you from playing this game.  It's just ... wow.  The gameplay is brilliant, and there is so much of it, executed so well.  Absolutely fantastic.

<i>Progress: 120 stars</i>