+++
date = "2007-11-07T13:41:51-07:00"
title = "Super Mario Galaxy"
slug = "super-mario-galaxy-6"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Super Mario Galaxy"]
platform = ["Wii"]
+++

I was sort-of right.  There are camera controls, in the C button and the remote's D-pad, but they're almost never useful.  It's much better now with a more responsive remote than at the demo - but in general, the game's spherical playfield and outright denial of sensible gravity <i>will</i> fuck with your head, and in fact, the heart of the game (at least so far) is in getting used to this.

Even stumbling around a bit, the early stars are a cinch, and I really feel like I'm becoming accustomed with the game's mechanics.  The instruction manual reveals a ton of things to come - there's way more than just Bee Mario and Boo Mario - and given the 'epic' nature of the game's intro and the sheer complexity of its orbital castle hub world, I can't stop thinking about what star mission I'm going to go on next.

The optional two-player dynamic is a great idea for the Wii.  The game is totally possible with one player, and in this way, it is precisely what Mario enthusiasts have been waiting for.  With a second player able to point things out and stun enemies (and perform even more helpful actions), the game enters a theoretical EZ-mode where any two fools can jump around and have fun.

The game's presentation is fantastic, but, you already know this.  What you <i>don't</i> yet know is the sheer joy of seeing Mario blast through space Superman-style.  I'll admit... I teared up a little.

<i>Progress: 3 stars</i>