+++
date = "2008-12-29T03:10:06-07:00"
title = "World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King"
slug = "world-of-warcraft-wrath-of-the-lich-king-9"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King" ]
platform = [ "Mac" ]
rating = [ "Awesome" ]
+++

A few things:

- I already knew that the 1-60 game had been trivialized, but apparently the 60-70 game has been, too.  This is perhaps a design flaw in MMO expansions: adding content on top of a previous max level, means that new players have to do the entire old game before seeing new stuff.  At the same time, shortening the earlier content makes it lose much of its <i>gravitas</i>, and makes the experience feel more tedious than adventurous.  This time around, I never did any of the epic quest lines I enjoyed in my first playthrough, opting instead for an ideal experience-per-minute path; and I have no doubt that new players almost invariably do the same, thanks to the guidance of established friends and/or guildmates.  A system similar to the one for Death Knights, where they begin at 55, makes more sense - but then, that's only for Death Knights.

- Leveling as Horde makes me realize certain conveniences I had previously taken for granted as Alliance.  Mainly, town access: though there is only one zone in Azeroth whose Horde presence makes life difficult for Alliance, there are several examples of the inverse.  It's not a huge issue gameplay-wise, and it doesn't crop up again in Outland or Northrend, but it does give a Horde player the feeling of being a second-class citizen.

- PvP servers are bullshit.  Since all servers have battlegrounds and arenas (and the new Wintergrasp PvP zone), being on a PvP server isn't so much about <i>wanting</i> to fight as it is about <i>picking</i> fights.  And no one ever picks a fight unless they know they can win.  As a Mage, I am basically finished if the other person strikes first, and so this is how my PvP life goes: every solo quest is tempered with the anxiety of being stricken down by an Alliance interloper at a crucial moment.  It's the Un'Goro Crater <a href="http://www.wowwiki.com/Devilsaur">Devilsaur</a> all over again.

Despite all this, I am rediscovering my hopeless addiction to WoW.  The sampling of new abilities I've encountered so far (<a href="http://www.wowwiki.com/Living_Bomb">Living Bomb!</a>) are a treat, and the new areas in Northrend are a real blast.  Following on the design successes of Outland, in making less numerous, but more populous and distinct zones, the zones in Northrend all have very unique feels.  The starting zones of Borean Tundra and Howling Fjord have you largely saving wildlife and fighting crazy viking monsters, respectively, where the intermediate area of Dragonblight puts you next to serious magical forces (e.g. dragons) as well as immersing you in a snowy wasteland that characterizes Northrend as a whole.  (I skipped Grizzly Hills, so, who cares.)  I've only briefly ventured into the further zones, but I'm hoping to have more to say on them soon.

<i>Progress: Level 73</i>