+++
date = "2008-12-07T19:29:14-07:00"
title = "Prince of Persia: The Fallen King"
slug = "prince-of-persia-the-fallen-king-2"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Prince of Persia: The Fallen King" ]
platform = [ "NDS" ]
+++

My hard drive is on life support, which ruled out [HL2](game:Half-Life 2) and <game:Assassin's Creed> (and though my old Powerbook can <i>play</i> [Lich King](game:World of Warcraft: Wrath of the Lich King), its aging hardware mars the experience somewhat).  So I turned on my Wii and checked out what's new on the Nintendo Channel: a playable demo of The Fallen King, which I had heard some interesting facts about.  Namely, that it uses [Phantom Hourglass](game:The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass)-like controls, which I was curious to see at work in another title.

Basically, Fallen King is classic sidescrolling Prince of Persia, plus Phantom Hourglass touch-to-move controls.  Though the concept is simple, the execution falters because PoP's gameplay is fundamentally different from Zelda's.  Where Link can get away with using a stylus to move and use items from an overhead view, using it to tell the Prince to jump and climb walls from a side perspective is more of a stretch, and makes vertical segments a tiring exercise in jamming the stylus in the general vicinity of a ledge.

The game's secondary character, some sort of floating magi, is basically a device for enabling new level design elements - but he's not used very well (at least in the demo).  You "switch" to the magi by pressing any face button or any direction on the D-pad, at which point, instead of doing tap-to-move, you're touching points of interest to the magi on the screen.  Touch a grapple point, and the Prince and the magi will grapple to it.  Touch an explosive magic item, and you can drag it to a destination.  Touch an enemy or empty area, and the magi will fire a magic bolt out, which stuns an enemy briefly but does no damage (e.g., the complexity of combat plateaus at stunning an enemy so that the Prince can take a free swipe).

The puzzles in the demo, involving pressure plates and rolling boulders, were more difficult than I'd expect from a free taste: which makes me hopeful that the final product could actually have some genuinely challenging puzzle-platform gameplay in it.  But I'll likely never find out for sure, as the rest of the gameplay is too tedious for me to sit through again.  Moving to a traditional button-based control scheme would be a good first step, but even then The Fallen King is depressingly similar to the original PoP, albeit with brighter colors and meaningless magi objects.

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- Finished three-minute demo</i>