+++
date = "2007-05-30T20:58:03-07:00"
title = "Planet Puzzle League"
slug = "planet-puzzle-league-8"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Planet Puzzle League"]
platform = ["DS"]
+++

There's a good amount of breadth to Planet Puzzle League.  I haven't seen it all yet, but so far I'm fairly impressed.

There are a slew of single player modes.  One of the new ones, "Garbage Challenge" - in which the player's goal is to destroy as many garbage blocks as possible, as they drop down without end - is kind of a bitch.  Most of the other stuff is pretty cool.  At first I thought the game's obligatory move-limit Puzzle Mode was pretty easy; but several stages in it's gotten very tough.

One of the neater features is "Daily Play," where the game challenges you to a single round in each of its three main modes, Score Attack, Garbage Attack, and Lift Attack, each with a time limit.  The scores for each of these three rounds is saved every day, and your progress is <b>charted</b> over time.  Think <game:Wii Sports>'s fitness chart, but for your block puzzle ability.  This is something I have a keen interest in.

There are a bunch of multiplayer options, including single-cart and multi-cart wireless, online friend battles, online world battles, and a bizarre Birthday Battle mode, where you play online against people with the same birthday (saved in your DS, remember?).  In a rather ... unorthodox design, Birthday Battle is the only way in which players are <i>ranked</i> online; the other modes don't count.  More on this as it develops - currently, all the other players are Japanese, who, as it turns out, are fairly <i>good</i> at this.

<i>Progress: Basic Puzzle 5-3</i>