+++
date = "2012-12-12T18:08:45-07:00"
title = "Sleeping Dogs: Nightmare in North Point"
slug = "sleeping-dogs-nightmare-in-north-point-2"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Sleeping Dogs: Nightmare in North Point" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Meh" ]
+++

As tempting as it is to think of Nightmare in North Point as a Hong Kong-flavored [Undead Nightmare](game:Red Dead Redemption: Undead Nightmare), that comparison is really unfair to the guys at Rockstar.  This DLC pack has about an hour's worth of story missions, and less than another hour of optional side-content.  And some collectible shrines, but unlike in the main game, there are no map markers for them -- so who's got the time for that.

Nightmare in North Point mixes up the combat a little, for ghost-busting purposes: your basic Jiang Shi are most easily dispatched with a grapple once stunned, there are Yaoguai demons who only take damage when your Face meter is full (or when you're holding a magic peachwood sword), and sometimes you'll need to toss ghosts into a magic portal to close it.  And ... that's it!  (Well, there's no police and all civilians are zombies, but that's hardly noteable.)

So the mechanical additions are scant, and the amount of playable content is anemic.  If there's a redeeming facet of this DLC, it's the tongue-in-cheek writing: head ghost "Smiley Cat" is frustrated that no one calls him by his real name, and one Yaoguai told me that humans have "fucked-up names."  Nightmare in North Point thrives on its parodic B-movie premise, to the extent that it thrives at all.

If you liked <game:Sleeping Dogs>, this is a little (very little) more of it.  But that's the best endorsement I can really give.  You're not missing anything by skipping it.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Red Faction: Armageddon - Path to War>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Red Dead Redemption: Undead Nightmare>  
<b>Seriously, less than two hours to completion</b>: considering the original game's value proposition, that's pretty disappointing.

<i>Progress: Finished the story missions, closed the portals</i>