+++
date = "2012-12-09T01:45:53-07:00"
title = "Nintendo Land"
slug = "nintendo-land-4"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Nintendo Land"]
platform = ["Wii U"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

A more thorough, and multi-player, sit-down with Nintendo Land has brought me to a simple conclusion: the Luigi's Ghost Mansion game is the only one worth playing again.

None of the solo experiences - or multi-player turn-taking affairs - can hold anyone's interest after one or two tries.  Admittedly, I didn't do the multi-player modes of Metroid Blast and Zelda Battle Quest, because they both require a bunch of extra equipment we didn't have on-hand (which is as good as a disqualification).  Pikmin Adventure is just dreadfully boring.  Mario Chase is too difficult to navigate to be fun, and the Animal Crossing fruit-collection game is ... okay, but poorly balanced: winning as the fruit collectors is almost impossible, and it only becomes less possible with more players.

Luigi's Ghost Mansion, a sort-of reverse Pac-man, pits one "ghost" player - invisible except in special circumstances - against some Luigi-alikes with ghostbusting flashlights in a maze-like arena.  A hunter's Wii remote will rumble when the ghost is near, but the hunter doesn't necessarily know from what direction the ghost is coming -- which the ghost can exploit to great dramatic effect, legitimately <i>haunting</i> a player.  And hunters which are downed can be revived with enough flashlight power, but replacement batteries are difficult to come by.  Honestly, this game in itself can keep a party going for some time.

It's a shame that the rest of the package is mediocre at best.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Wii Play" %}}Wii Play{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "Wii Sports" %}}Wii Sports{{% /game %}}  
<b>Keep in mind, for multi-player</b>: you'll need to supplement the Wii U's equipment set with Wii Remotes, <i>and more</i> in some games (Motion Pluses and/or Nunchuks).

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- Played a little of everything</i>