+++
date = "2011-02-02T23:59:21-07:00"
title = "Limbo"
slug = "limbo-3"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Limbo" ]
platform = [ "X360" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

Limbo did turn out to have a few more surprises in store for me.  For one, a sort of... not really a narrative, but some <game:Half-Life>-style real-time events that give a greater insight into the game's ambiguous story.  Unfortunately these scenes are pretty scant.

The other surprise was the ending, which pretty much came out of nowhere.  I knew Limbo was going to be a short game, but the single-take gameplay really succeeded at making me think it would never end -- up until it did, very abruptly.  I wouldn't call it a disappointment, but it did feel a little unsatisfying.

There were a good amount of genuine brain-scratchers in Limbo's puzzles, and also a good amount of hectic action sequences.  I want to complain about how generally imitative its accomplishments were, and how the imperfect controls made some precision platforming more frustrating than it needed to be.  At the same time, I want to praise the overall effectiveness of its cocktail of mechanics, and its user-friendly checkpoints and environmental hints.

Limbo is a good game, and you'll almost certainly have fun with it.  But it's simple, and unlike [some](game:VVVVVV) [other](game:Toki Tori) simple games, it won't make you think differently about the medium.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:LostWinds>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Braid>  
<b>The last surprise</b>: was the game's credits.  I expected a team of two or three (plus Microsoft production), but apparently this was a somewhat major undertaking.

<i>Progress: Complete</i>