+++
date = "2011-02-14T02:17:33-07:00"
title = "Kingdom Hearts 358/2 Days"
slug = "kingdom-hearts-3582-days-7"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Kingdom Hearts 358/2 Days"]
platform = ["NDS"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

Roxas may not be all alone in his, uh, mystery quest? but Goofy and (especially) Donald are sorely missed.  At least so far, Roxas only brings one Organization XIII member with him on his missions, and they absolutely refuse to heal Roxas, with magic or otherwise.  Add to that a relatively small max HP, and a bizarre equipment/ability/level/item system that severely restricts the sum of Roxas's powers (as an addendum to this explanation, "level-up" takes up a grid space, just as "one potion" does), and the game seems a little more punishing than it has to be.

There's time for it to improve, of course, but after my experience with <game:Kingdom Hearts II> my confidence is a bit lacking.  Unfortunately the combat mechanics aren't the only things I'm worried about -- almost everything about the game's pacing has me concerned.  It took me a dozen missions or so until I could buy or synthesize items, given I'd already accumulated nearly 10,000 <i>munny</i> and had nothing to do with it.  And although the premise of a deeper look inside Organization XIII sounds interesting, thus far the game has made them out to be the most boring secret society ever conceived.  Everyone just sits on a couch and complains all day.

My optimism hasn't completely run out yet, but it's certainly being wavered.

<i>Progress: Day 26</i>