+++
date = "2012-11-17T13:45:13-07:00"
title = "Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception"
slug = "uncharted-3-drakes-deception-4"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception"]
platform = ["PS3"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

In investigating whether Uncharted 3 was really not as good as its {{% game "Uncharted 2: Among Thieves" %}}predecessor{{% /game %}}, or I was just jaded by nostalgia, I've determined that the truth is somewhere in the middle.  Completing Uncharted 2 again showed me that I was remembering it more fondly than it perhaps deserved.  But completing Uncharted 3 again showed me, well, pretty much the same thing.

The third game's mechanics are an improvement over the second's, but only incrementally -- there are still way too many encounters that are just <i>insufferably</i> frustrating, due to an unbelievable number of enemies, irritatingly overpowered enemy snipers or shotgunners, and the absolutely incredible resilience of armored foes.  Fun fact: even on the <b>lowest</b>, "Very Easy" difficulty, snipers can one-shot Drake, while armored guys can take <i>two</i> direct shotgun blasts to the head.

And - just as I previously evaluated - these small mechanical steps don't make up for the narrative shortfall when compared to Drake's previous adventure.  As I noted before, Uncharted 3's pacing is kind of wacky, with disparate side-trips taking up too much of the game's length.  This leads to too many of the game's stand-out moments - the ship, the plane, the horse chase - getting jammed together in the last third.  And the finale is unsatisfying, despite being refreshingly realistic.

So my conclusion is that, yes, Uncharted 2 is overall better than the third, and that this isn't mutually exclusive with the nostalgia factor.  In fact - having definitively observed that Uncharted is better remembered than played - I would say the reason Uncharted 2 stands tall, is simply because it has more memorable moments.

<i>Progress: Finished again (on Very Easy because fuck it)</i>