+++
date = "2012-03-06T01:30:25-07:00"
title = "Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem!"
slug = "mario-vs-donkey-kong-mini-land-mayhem-2"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem!"]
platform = ["DS"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

Like {{% game "Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis" %}}its predecessor{{% /game %}}, Mini-Land Mayhem introduces a new theme and mechanic for each of its eight worlds.  Unfortunately, most of these mechanics aren't very interesting; the whole game leans pretty heavily on the first world's beam-placing elements, and the conveyor belts are the only other pieces that can really measure up to that.  Hell, several of the puzzle elements are barely <i>used</i>, even in their worlds of origin.

Unlike March of the Minis, this MvDK installment doesn't have much of a sliding scale of success in each level; you have to rescue all the Minis, or you fail.  In the game's more intricate later levels, this supports a satisfying difficulty level -- but since most of it is pretty easy, this generally makes the puzzles feel narrow and dull.  The only dimension of freedom is collecting extra coins - which I guess are used in the Construction Zone? - and face cards in each level.  Collectibles?  Ehhh.

Mini-Land Mayhem isn't a bad puzzle game.  The Lemmings-lite formula still feels relatively unique, and overall the design is pretty good.  But too many of the puzzles feel watered down.  There <i>is</i> a New Game Plus mode that adds Minis to each level, which I suppose would offer some more challenge, but I don't really have any compulsion to play through these levels a second time.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Exit DS" %}}Exit DS{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis" %}}Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2: March of the Minis{{% /game %}}  
<b>I guess this is</b>: pretty much the same as {{% game "Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Minis March Again" %}}Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Minis March Again{{% /game %}}?

<i>Progress: Finished the first playthrough, got all the bonus cards</i>