+++
date = "2012-03-04T21:51:31-07:00"
title = "The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim"
slug = "the-elder-scrolls-v-skyrim-8"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

Alright, now - at <b>135</b> hours - I think I'm really done.  I restored the Thieves' Guild to its former glory, I joined the Dark Brotherhood (and also restored them to glory), championed the crazy causes of all the Daedric princes, broke level 50, and now I have a full suit of jester armor.  (Not what I normally wear.)

I'm not sure if I made this point effectively in my last post, but Skyrim is not a perfect game.  Setting aside its technological issues (and the aforementioned unplayability of melee combat), I'm also disappointed by the damage-to-magicka ratio of the higher-level Destruction spells, annoyed by the vast meandering Dwemer ruin dungeons, and irritated by the frequent appearance of a random dragon <i>just</i> when I was in the middle of something.  The <b>genius</b> of Skyrim is that it's so vast and robust, that its shortcomings have no problem being overshadowed by the other content you can take part in.

I wouldn't be surprised if, a few months from now, I find myself back in my save file -- running more errands for the towns in which I'm not yet eminently trusted.  Then what's to stop me from going on a killing spree, assassinating all those gullible idiots?  And that's when things will <i>really</i> get interesting.

<i>Progress: Level 50 winner of everything</i>