+++
date = "2009-05-31T19:14:31-07:00"
title = "Exit DS"
slug = "exit-ds-5"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Exit DS" ]
platform = [ "NDS" ]
rating = [ "Bad" ]
+++

There are parts of this game that I like, and it would be great if I could have more of them.  But there are just too many problems that make Exit DS a huge pain in my ass.

The pathfinding is retarded - some situations work fine, others don't.  If I tell Mr. Esc to drop from a certain height to the floor on the next square, he'll do it.  But if I tell him to go to the square <i>next</i> to that, which is on the same level, he can't figure it out.  Or if he's on the square <i>next to the edge</i> of the height, he won't be able to figure that out, either.  As I've mentioned repeatedly, stairs are a <i>nightmare</i>.

Position is an incredibly irritating problem.  The game is grid-oriented, in that you control characters by telling them to go to a square on the map, and everything has squarish dimensions.  But not all positions within a square are the same! and so if someone's standing too close to the edge of a square that's next to an elevator, or a fire, or a falling crate, it's a wash.

I've already talked about the problem of the game's plague of movement and strength statistics.  Levels that operate only or mostly on basic, "normal" values are fine, but now I keep running into levels where blocks can't move the same because they're on ice - or there's a crippled survivor who has to be carried and can't be dropped more than one square at a time - or this damn kid can't fucking <i>swim</i>.  There are too many exceptions to the game's rules.

The ironic thing is that for all the faux-realism that the game's complicated parameters fabricate, it still feels cheap and phony.  Why can't a survivor move until Mr. Esc comes in contact with him?  Why can't a dog <i>fall</i> as far as a human can?  Why can pickaxes destroy pillars, but not doors?  Why is there no way to <i>pull</i> a box?  There's still a puzzle to be figured out behind all this crap, but I can't be bothered to care about it anymore.

Of course the gameplay problems are to say nothing of a glaring presentation issue: the sound effects.  Exit's graphics are mostly fine (the style is actually pretty neat), and the music is alright, too.  But until you rescue a survivor, he, she, or it will make the most annoying noise possible, <i>constantly</i>.  And even afterward, you're likely to hear frequent "idle" gibbering from them or from Mr. Esc.  The sound effects are grating, and I hadn't been able to play the game with volume since Situation 1.

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- Stage 4-3</i>