+++
date = "2009-05-03T12:19:13-07:00"
title = "Star Wars: The Force Unleashed"
slug = "star-wars-the-force-unleashed-7"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Star Wars: The Force Unleashed"]
platform = ["Wii"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

After just over two hours of gameplay, I'm apparently a third of the way through the game.  Huh.

I've (mostly) gotten over the terrible graphics, and I can get used to the fact that Darth Vader is being voiced by anyone other than James Earl Jones (even though it is complete blasphemy).  Now what bothers me most about Force Unleashed is the exposition, or rather, lack thereof.

The story starts out interesting enough, and promises a look at a new and surprising piece of the puzzle in the Galactic Empire's rise to power.  But, at least so far, just about everything I know about the story is by inference.  Cutscenes are infrequent and short.  There's barely any <i>dialog</i>.  The lines that <i>are</i> here are short enough that the "subtler" points they try to make come across as hamfisted and lame.  I'm no fan of games that {{% game "Tales of Vesperia" %}}drone on and on{{% /game %}}, but I feel like there's a great story in Force Unleashed that just <i>isn't being told</i>.

At least the gameplay is still fun.  Enemies are actually a challenge, a bit confusing given I have a <i>laser sword</i> but making for some genuinely exciting combat.  The Force Power upgrade system isn't very deep, and in fact I have no idea what the investment of my upgrade points is really doing, but I'm assuming that my more powerful ... powers, will flesh out more over time.

<i>Progress: Vader's Flagship</i>