+++
date = "2009-05-31T12:18:54-07:00"
title = "Plants vs. Zombies"
slug = "plants-vs-zombies-8"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Plants vs. Zombies" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

Zomboni.  It's a zombie riding a zamboni.  It paves a path of ice behind it, and when it's gone, a <i>zombie bobsled team</i> sleds down it.

The first set of ten levels is in daylight, and the second set is at night.  The third has a <i>pool</i>, and you have new aquatic plants like kelp (and new aquatic zombies who sometimes ride zombie dolphins).  The fourth set is the pool at night, so naturally there are aquatic mushrooms.  Also there's fog that obscures your vision of the field.

Zombonis aren't the only impressive thing about this game's design - you're also frequently accosted by your neighbor, Crazy Dave, who gives you advice while mumbling and yelling a lot.  Eventually he opens up a shop where you can buy more seed slots (so you can bring more plant types into a level), and other stuff like plant upgrades.  You pick up money in levels, or you can earn some extra coin by doing bonus challenges.  In one of them, the zombies <i>shoot</i> at you, which totally changed my plant placement strategy.  In another, there's a <i>slot machine</i> that randomly rewards you with seeds or sun power, and you have to survive long enough to accumulate a certain amount of sun wealth.

At the 60% mark, the game's level of variety is still surprisingly impressive.  And the zombies in some levels are really starting to make me sweat.

<i>Progress: Level 4-1</i>