+++
date = "2013-03-26T23:52:54-07:00"
title = "BioShock Infinite"
slug = "bioshock-infinite-4"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["BioShock Infinite"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

Some games have a singular moment that defines them as truly unique, unforgettable experiences.  In {{% game "The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker" %}}The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker{{% /game %}}, this was when the King of Red Lions showed Link the sunken kingdom of Hyrule, suspended in time and sea.  In {{% game "Chrono Trigger" %}}Chrono Trigger{{% /game %}}, it was when the party traveled to 2300 A.D. and witnessed the apocalypse created by Lavos.  {{% game "BioShock" %}}BioShock{{% /game %}}'s moment happened almost immediately, when you first descended into Rapture, and saw and heard Andrew Ryan's incredible propaganda (or, arguably, when you meet Ryan face-to-face midway through the game).

BioShock Infinite's defining moment doesn't happen until the very end.  But it's worth it.

While I wasn't entirely fair last time - like I said, the game I'd experienced thus far wasn't <i>bad</i> - I maintain that it starts slow and awkward.  Clearly the beginning's purpose is to acquaint you with the world of Columbia and its oddity, but it really doesn't do very well at this; it introduces characters and ideas, but doesn't explain <b>any</b> of them, from the source of the town's labor and the secret of its flight, to the motivations of the story's central players.  And although it shows you gameplay- and setting-elements like the Handyman and the Mechanized Patriot, it fails to discuss these ideas in any depth.  Beyond just being uninformatively dull, this situation actually makes Booker's character difficult to believe, as he scarcely questions the incredible, unexplained world around him.

Much of the first third revolves around a subplot which, although it happens upon one or two vital bits of backstory, is itself fairly unnecessary and borderline irrelevant.  These hours of the game seem to be more focused on introducing gameplay mechanics, even the unfortunately tedious ones -- like secrets in locked rooms or encrypted notes, which require extensive and dull backtracking.  Fortunately there are few of these throughout the game, but they consistently and significantly interfere with the game's pace.

The second third picks up, although more in terms of gameplay than in narrative.  It figures that, almost instantly after I'd complained about the game's flat arsenal, it would introduce new and interesting weapons (although these, too, grow old before long).  The sky rail system becomes more integral to combat, as does Elizabeth's tear ability.  But even in the game's middle section, the story is more questions than answers, and not that many questions to boot.

It isn't until the game's final third that things really hit their stride.  Large and complex battles will exercise all of your shooting and vigor skills, not to mention keeping tabs on Elizabeth's tears, and taking her aid (she'll sometimes toss you ammo, health, and other consumables, when you're in desperate need).  Plot events <i>finally</i> get Booker and Elizabeth curious about her powers, and about the forgotten secrets of Columbia.  And as I said -- in the end, it all seems worthwhile.  BioShock Infinite's ending is a triumphant combination of satisfaction and mystery, answering what was set in the game's beginning while still leaving plenty to speculate over after the end.

Ultimately, I did get what I wanted out of BioShock Infinite; it just took me the game's length to get there.  And while, as with its predecessor, there are elements of its gameplay I'll forget - and others I'll have to forgive - that defining moment, its revelatory conclusion, will stay with me.

One more thing, before I do forget it: BioShock Infinite <b>has no manual save function</b>.  It only has checkpoints and autosaves.  Presumably, this is in order to force narrative continuity upon the player, but it also means two potentially disastrous things: one, if something interrupts your save, like a power outage or crash, you may end up having to repeat <i>a lot</i> since the last checkpoint; and two, there's effectively only one save slot.  Seems like a problem, right?

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "BioShock 2" %}}BioShock 2{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Dishonored" %}}Dishonored{{% /game %}}, {{% game "Spec Ops: The Line" %}}Spec Ops: The Line{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "BioShock" %}}BioShock{{% /game %}}, in some ways, but...  
<b>Basically as good as</b>: {{% game "BioShock" %}}BioShock{{% /game %}}, by the time the credits roll.

<i>Progress: Finished on medium difficulty</i>