+++
date = "2010-12-27T02:45:25-07:00"
title = "Uncharted 2: Among Thieves"
slug = "uncharted-2-among-thieves-4"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Uncharted 2: Among Thieves"]
platform = ["PS3"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

The controls still suck.  That's the disappointing thing about Uncharted 2 -- there are still too many moments where Drake rolls instead of ducks, or falls instead of jumps.  But - to great effect - this installment makes much smarter choices about story pacing and encounter lengths, so the thrilling narrative can really shine through.

The gameplay hasn't really changed, but more well-designed environments, including a few genuinely great combat arenas, remove almost all of the chore-like feelings I got from the first game.  There are a few fights where unreasonable bullet-sponges with shotguns make the game more frustrating than it needs to be, but in general it really feels like a very competent third-person shooter.

And as before, the writing, acting, cinematic direction, and soundtrack are all top-notch.  This is the best storytelling in the industry.  If it wasn't for the fact that the gameplay is about a smartass treasure hunter shooting hundreds of neo-Nazis, it might really convince people that video game stories can be taken seriously.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Uncharted: Drake's Fortune" %}}Uncharted: Drake's Fortune{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "BioShock" %}}BioShock{{% /game %}}  
<b>A better <i>Indiana Jones</i></b>: than the last Indiana Jones movie

<i>Progress: Finished on Normal</i>