+++
date = "2013-01-27T00:24:51-07:00"
title = "Borderlands 2: Mr. Torgue's Campaign of Carnage"
slug = "borderlands-2-mr-torgues-campaign-of-carnage-3"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Borderlands 2: Mr. Torgue's Campaign of Carnage"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

Don't be fooled by the name or the premise -- this isn't some simple arena event.  Mr. Torgue's Campaign of Carnage is, in fact, a campaign, with a story and characters and turning points and everything.  That being said, it isn't a very nuanced campaign; it does revolve closely around climbing a (brief) ladder to the top of the Badass charts.  But it's sufficient, and more importantly, a proper vehicle for Mr. Torgue to drive into a F\*CKING EXPLOSION!

Yeah, there's a campaign and a solid collection of side-quests, but the real star of this DLC pack is <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d_sy4tXtjjY">Mr. Torgue himself</a>.  He really steals the show, despite it belonging to him in the first place.  Mr. Torgue's writing is impeccable - including (and especially) his expletive-filled explanation of why his expletives are bleeped - and the voice actor's delivery is pitch perfect.  At no point during the campaign does Mr. Torgue stop talking to you about badassitude or explosions, and that is AWESOME!

The Campaign of Carnage's level design isn't quite up to the standard set by [Captain Scarlett](game:Borderlands 2: Captain Scarlett and Her Pirate's Booty), though fortunately some new enemy designs (can you say TORGUE ROBOTS!?) start to make up for that.  But as nice and good as pretty much everything in this DLC pack is, the highlight is - again, easily - Mr. Torgue.  He could make a much worse campaign worth playing.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Saints Row: The Third>'s DLCs ([Genkibowl VII](game:Saints Row: The Third - Genkibowl VII), [Gangstas in Space](game:Saints Row: The Third - Gangstas in Space), [The Trouble with Clones](game:Saints Row: The Third - The Trouble with Clones))  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Borderlands 2: Captain Scarlett and Her Pirate's Booty>  
<b>Surprising side-mission note</b>: there are <i>several</i> level-50 side missions in here!

<i>Progress: Finished the Campaign, still plenty of side quests</i>