+++
date = "2013-01-28T20:11:06-07:00"
title = "Sleeping Dogs: Zodiac Tournament"
slug = "sleeping-dogs-zodiac-tournament-2"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Sleeping Dogs: Zodiac Tournament" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
rating = [ "Meh" ]
+++

Like [Nightmare in North Point](game:Sleeping Dogs: Nightmare in North Point) and cheesy horror films, the Zodiac Tournament side-story is designed to pay homage (and parody) the kung fu movie genre.  And also like the Nightmare pack, the length of this DLC's campaign - at about <b>one hour</b> - is significantly shorter than one of those movies.

That being said, because this story is focused on combat, it is on the whole more enjoyable than the running-around Shen had to do in his zombie adventure.  Aside from a couple of running-through-the-woods sequences, and the collectible martial arts statues (only a few of which are actually hidden), the Zodiac Tournament is all about fighting waves of thugs or unique opponents -- or both at the same time.

The Zodiac Tournament DLC is intensely short, somewhat slapdash in its production quality (check those heavily artifacted cutscenes), and very lacking in content different from the core <game:Sleeping Dogs> experience.  But the melee encounters are entertaining enough to make the experience worth the time, if not necessarily worth the money.

Small side-note: I accidentally lost my game save file before starting this DLC up, so I went into it from a new game, without any upgrades or learned techniques. A few of the fights were unexpectedly difficult, but nothing a couple retries couldn't get around.  If you were to enter the tournament with a fully-upgraded Wei Shen, the whole affair would probably be quite a pushover.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Sleeping Dogs: Nightmare in North Point>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Borderlands 2: Mr. Torgue's Campaign of Carnage>  
<b>Not sure why</b>: I would've expected anything different.

<i>Progress: Won the tournament, collected all the statues</i>