+++
date = "2013-01-01T19:59:39-07:00"
title = "Assassin's Creed III"
slug = "assassins-creed-iii-8"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Assassin's Creed III"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

The Assassin's Creed franchise has wandered an uneven path over the past few years: first hewing painfully close to its real-world technobabble, later becoming a pseudo-religious fairy tale; developing a mystery-steeped story around modern-day protagonist Desmond, but largely discarding it as the series proceeded; premising itself on single-minded assassination and stealth, then trading these concepts for visceral melee combat and a bevy of integrated mini-games.  AC3, for the most part, continues these traditions -- but rather than coming across as a Frankenstein's monster like its predecessors, this iteration feels somehow <i>right</i>.

One of the biggest changes from previous Creeds to AC3 is, this time, the high-level story structure is actually pretty good.  While Desmond's 2012 story is still rooted in absurd <a href="http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=conspiratard">conspiratard</a> bullshit, most of the story-<i>telling</i> here avoids the trap of descending into poorly-justified exposition, instead focusing on smaller-scale events and inter-character drama.  Some of those characters are criminally underdeveloped (who the fuck is Cross?), and the ending is, <i>of course</i>, a poorly-written and idiotic cliffhanger.  But still -- progress.

The 18th century story is a lot better-told than Altair's and Ezio's were, too.  It actually doesn't start with Connor (the central Native American protagonist), but with Haytham Kenway, a British assassin on a mission to the colonies.  There are some well-plotted twists, and some real, meaningful character interactions throughout his and Connor's campaign; and at times when those feel stale, there is also the exceptionally fascinating - although I may be biased - backdrop of the American revolution.  This, too, is paced masterfully, stepping from milestone event to milestone event without ever feeling conveniently contrived (unlike, say, Brotherhood's treatment of the Italian Renaissance).

What's most compelling about AC3's writing is a number of scenes - mostly in the Animus, but occasionally in 2012 as well - that question the franchise's foundations, the motives of Templars and Assassins, and the nature of the human desires for peace and freedom.  It's a shame, though, that these motivational and philosophical questions aren't really explored by the game's characters.  There's also still plenty of awkwardly-written dialog, and Connor's voice actor is distractingly flat for most of the game.  Again, though -- progress.

While the storytelling is what makes AC3's campaign easy to fall into, what keeps it playable is an impressive amount of attention to combat mechanics.  Where Altair's stealth was largely driven by his terrible hand-to-hand skills, and Ezio still seemed to regret holding an axe, Connor is a goddamn <i>artist</i> with his tomahawk, painting the battlefield with the blood of his enemies.  Combat is fast, and flows beautifully thanks to some Arkham-style enemy behavior, where attacks are counterable, but most enemies are always vulnerable to some weakness.  Some enemy-specific tactics are difficult to read due to visually-similar enemy types, and occasionally, the camera will get stuck behind a wall or a tree, hiding counter/block prompts; but for the most part, AC3's combat system works great.

With fast weapons and flowing counters, cutting down hordes of redcoats is a true joy.  Which is good, because the other main element of Assassin's Creed gameplay - stealth - hasn't improved much.  Actually, with the last few games' new clambering rules and control-system overhauls, it's harder than ever to execute the exact right sequence of events to remain undetected -- and easier than ever to accidentally climb the wrong thing or make the wrong jump.  Given that, it's exceptionally regrettable how <i>many</i> campaign missions fail automatically when you're detected (seriously, what the hell, Ubisoft?).  But these are tolerable enough to power through.

In fact, between the compelling plot and the fast-paced gameplay, I found it hard to put AC3's campaign down, even for optional, non-campaign content.  This is a first in the series for me (with the exception of the original {{% game "Assassin's Creed" %}}Assassin's Creed{{% /game %}}, which didn't have enough optional content to even consider).  As you might expect based on Ezio's open-world adventures, there's a ton of extra stuff, from letter-carrying and hunting to assassin recruitment and colonial resistance.  With the exception of two or three forced naval battle sequences, these extras are never forced upon the player during the campaign, which is nice ... if a bit inconvenient, since some optional content covers really cool stuff, like the Rope Dart weapon and Assassin Recruit powers.

This, at least in my estimation, is less of a design mistake and more of a production misstep.  Like <a href="http://www.joystiq.com/2012/03/26/assassins-creed-3s-displaced-main-city-philadelphia/">Philadelphia</a>, and like some skip-ahead dialog hinting at missing content, there are various indicators throughout the campaign's story of content that was cut, or rearranged for time.  And that these seams are still visible, shows that (in accordance with tradition) this game wasn't quite finished.  On the one hand, the 2012 plot demands that the game be released before December 21st; but then again, this pattern - changing the game's design and rushing it to release - really seems to be the AC franchise's most persistent flaw.  As fun and as enriched as Assassin's Creed 3 is, it still feels, like every other Creed, <b>unfinished</b>.

But in the face of these continuing production issues, AC3 shows -- well, progress.  Even in its technical sophistication, which takes some meaningful steps forward from Ezio's stagnating engine: facial expressions look great, crowded city scenes hold up reasonably well, and water and snow look and act excellently.  Yeah, there is still the occasional low-resolution texture and low-polygon model mixed in here, but ... progress.

It's been a long journey, but AC3 has finally made something really impressive <i>and</i> fun out of the franchise; even if it wasn't what I expected.

<b>Better than</b>: every previous Assassin's Creed game  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "Batman: Arkham City" %}}Batman: Arkham City{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not a bad place to jump into the series</b>: as long as you don't mind missing the nonsensical First Civilization backstory (which isn't really missing much).

<i>Progress: Finished the campaign</i>