+++
date = "2009-12-05T23:24:00-07:00"
title = "The Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks"
slug = "the-legend-of-zelda-spirit-tracks-5"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["The Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks"]
platform = ["DS"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Thank goodness.  My completion estimate from yesterday was on the high side; and like magic, the remaining half-or-so of Spirit Tracks (including an additional dungeon after the Fire Temple, plus some <i>absurdly</i> difficult final floors in the Tower of Spirits) was everything I could hope for from a great Zelda game.  Thrilling boss fights; devilish dungeons; even the story picked up quite a bit.  I'm still hesitant to chugga-chugga-chug along for the game's sidequests, but who knows, maybe I'll come back later.

It's pretty clear to me what made the difference in ST's latter half: more dungeon, less train.  I could go on; but it would only belabor my point from yesterday.  Not to rain on <a href="http://kotaku.com/5418530/heres-where-the-idea-for-spirit-tracks-came-from">Aonuma's parade</a>, but trains pretty much stopped being the coolest thing ever when I was ten.  Although I won't deny there is a certain fun factor to pulling the whistle.

Anyway!  The last several dungeons and other gameplay sequences more-or-less redeem the menial parts of the game's first half.  So while it doesn't end up being one of my favorite Zeldas, I'm glad I stuck it through.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Okami" %}}Okami{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not as good as</b>: {{% game "The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass" %}}The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass{{% /game %}}  
<b>I wish I could</b>: Just get off the train and <i>walk</i>

P.S. Spirit Tracks does a <i>bit</i> of gap-tying between {{% game "The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker" %}}Wind Waker{{% /game %}}/{{% game "The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass" %}}Phantom Hourglass{{% /game %}} and the rest of the series.  Don't expect anything significant, though.

P.P.S. {{% spoiler %}}This is the third Zelda {{% game "The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess" %}}in a{{% /game %}} {{% game "The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass" %}}row{{% /game %}} where one of the final battles is with <b>the floating, possessed body of the princess</b>.  What's up with that?{{% /spoiler %}}

<i>Progress: Defeated Malladus</i>