+++
date = "2014-01-12T20:47:29-08:00"
title = "REEEEEEEVENGEANCE"
slug = "reeeeeeevengeance"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

This is an interesting one.

At first, the gameplay is pretty straightforward.  Ninja run to vault obstacles; slap enemies around with fast, light attacks and slow, heavy attacks; go into slow-motion to finish someone off with an absurd slice-storm.  Maybe a little simplistic, but, a fun slash-em-up with bombastic set pieces.

Then comes the boss battle that changes everything -- the "{{% game "Viewtiful Joe" %}}Viewtiful Joe{{% /game %}} helicopter" moment.  Now you have to learn how the parry really works.  Now you have to take inventory of the game's controls, to lock-on and use healing items.  (<a href="http://kotaku.com/5985395/metal-gear-rising-does-a-terrible-job-of-telling-you-how-to-play-here-are-some-tips">Reading this</a> is what helped me.)  You don't have to be an expert to finish the battle, but you do have to appreciate and respect the game in a way that wasn't previously evident.

From here, Revengeance can appear to back off at times, but the lesson is clear: don't turn your back on it.  You never know when you'll be ambushed by a robot made out of guns that shoot knives that explode on your face.

As for the story?  Well.  It has about as much subtlety as you'd expect from a Metal Gear - the bad guys in the prologue talk matter-of-factly about their plan, leaving nothing to the imagination - as well as the franchise's eccentric approach to enemy designs and personalities.  Actually, they're a bit reminiscent of {{% game "No More Heroes" %}}No More Heroes{{% /game %}}, which is pretty rad.  But the overall plotting, which tries to shoehorn these wacky characters into a serious war drama, is too outlandish to take seriously.  While also not outlandish enough to be funny.  It's ... awkward.

Revengeance is a little different than what I expected; {{% game "Vanquish" %}}Vanquish{{% /game %}}'s unique brand of high-speed, long-range combat doesn't really translate into Raiden's up-close-and-personal swordplay.  But it's still frantic, fun, and satisfyingly weird.

<i>Progress: Finished R-01.</i>
