+++
date = "2014-01-19T19:03:47-08:00"
title = "Inglourious Stealth Basterd"
slug = "inglourious-stealth-basterd"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Stealth Bastard Deluxe"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

Well, it took me long enough.  Stealth Bastard's primary flaw is that, despite frequent checkpoints, dying over and over again can be <i>exhausting</i>.  It's hard to play for more than a few levels at a time without needing a break.

But the puzzles are great, the platforming challenges are great, and there's a very respectable amount of levels, to boot.  Each "sector" (collection of levels) introduces a new mechanic, which suceeds in keeping the gameplay formula fresh throughout.  Especially in the later levels, which often involve a mix of rapid and precise movement.

The "story" never gets anywhere meaningful, unless you count the irreverently-humorous ending.  But that's totally fine; the game itself is tight and engaging enough, aforementioned exhaustion aside.  This is a damned impressive platform-puzzler, particularly in its platforming strength.  And while I'm completely satisfied with the level of difficulty in "finishing" the game, there are plenty of collectible and ranking challenges for players who are ... really into that sort of thing.

I can only hope that the <platform:PS3> and <platform:Vita> "Stealth Inc." incarnation hasn't lost this game's sense of bastardity.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:VVVVVV>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Mark of the Ninja>  
<b>Surprising proof</b>: that <a href="http://www.yoyogames.com/studio">GameMaker</a> can produce something really solid.

<i>Progress: Finish Sector 8.</i>
