+++
date = "2014-01-28T23:21:11-08:00"
title = "An ... Unexpected, Journey"
slug = "an-unexpected-journey"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Journey" ]
platform = [ "PS3" ]
rating = [ "Meh" ]
+++

Yeah, I'm a bit late to this party.  And frankly, the party is something of a letdown.

First off: I'm really impressed with how well-executed the anonymous multiplayer is.  I expected this to be irritating at first - and it was, in the earlier, simpler areas - but as the journey itself became more trying and nuanced, my happenstance companion conveyed an implicit sense of camaraderie.  It's great, because the limited methods of interaction and communication keep the whole thing very subtle.  The effect is surprisingly cool.

Journey's presentation is also sublime.  The craftsmanship of the game world, the splendor of the visual effects, and the awe-inspiring soundtrack are really wonders to behold.  At times when the camera is drawn to on-screen action, Journey has the aesthetic gravity of a Peter Jackson / Middle-earth joint.

The game itself, though, is overall tepid.  Of its eight chapters, the first four are pretty much interactive screensavers; the only gameplay to speak of is collecting jump-boosting upgrade items, which are also totally optional and unnecessary.  Eye-catching, but pretty much a non-game.  Then, in the final four chapters, there is an <i>enemy</i> which can remove your jump upgrades by hitting you -- so, an additional challenge factor, but one which nullifies the only semblance of gameplay up to then.  The last few chapters also show glimpses of movement puzzles, but only barely and briefly.

As for narrative, there are cutscenes inbetween the chapters which provide some backstory for the game world, and are just arcane enough to be intriguing.  But the ending, an abstract and artsy flourish, doesn't wrap anything up in a satisfying way.

By and large, Journey is a trudging-through-sand simulator; although some of its ideas are clever and memorable, the act of "playing" it is mostly passive.  It's okay as an experience, but still falls short as a game.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Dear Esther>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Unmechanical>  
<b>If Journey isn't enough of a game for me</b>: I guess I may as well forget about <game:flOw> and <game:Flower>.

<i>Progress: Finished, didn't collect everything.</i>