+++
date = "2009-10-25T20:17:03-07:00"
title = "The Secret of Monkey Island: Special Edition"
slug = "the-secret-of-monkey-island-special-edition-2"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["The Secret of Monkey Island: Special Edition"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Shamefully, I had never played the original Monkey Island until today.  That is, today I played the <i>Special Edition</i>, which is the same but better-looking and -sounding.

It was a bit shorter than I expected - not that just-under-six-hours is too short for an adventure game, but Monkey Island is split into four "parts," and the first occupies about 75% of the game's length.  So the ending was a bit sudden; but the game was a joy to play all throughout.

As in {{% game "Tales of Monkey Island: Launch of the Screaming Narwhal" %}}Screaming Narwhal{{% /game %}}, there were a few times I ran into frustratingly obfuscated riddles; but Monkey Island SE's in-game hint system proved itself wonderfully.  In all but the most indecipherable circumstances, I was able to get the gist of what the game wanted from me, without having it lead me by the hand.  Other than that, my only real complaints regard a few screens with hard- or impossible-to-see hotspots (but again, the hint system is able to cover this).

The good news is that I finally have a merit badge for this crucial piece of gaming canon.  The bad news is, now I've been spoiled by the Special Edition's rich graphics and voice work.  A remake of {{% game "Monkey Island 2 Special Edition: LeChuck's Revenge" %}}Monkey Island 2{{% /game %}} can't come soon enough.

<i>Progress: Complete</i>