+++
date = "2009-10-04T15:39:19-07:00"
title = "Br&uuml;tal Legend"
slug = "brutal-legend-5"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Br&uuml;tal Legend"]
platform = ["Xbox 360"]
+++

Since the game was announced, something like two years ago now, my attitude toward Br&uuml;tal Legend could best be described as <i>wary intrigue</i>.  Sure, Tim Schafer is a fine piece of development pedigree, but a beat-em-up in a setting inspired by a genre of music?  Well, the demo is on Xbox Live now, and after playing it I've changed my stance to <i>lukewarm interest</i>.

The game world is very finely crafted; even the brief demo shows off some richly imaginative creatures and environments.  A big draw is Jack Black's commendable voice acting - which, combined with a seemingly endless amount of witty dialog, is a very good thing.  Still, there were some parts of the presentation I felt fell flat, notably the character animation in cutscenes and the female sidekick's dialog.

Br&uuml;tal Legend's hand-to-hand combat feels <i>somewhat</i> fresh, at least as far as the demo went with it.  By no means does it revolutionize the action-combat game, but in the current deluge of {{% game "God of War" %}}God of War{{% /game %}} knock-offs, Br&uuml;tal Legend's creative moves and simple controls do stand out.

What really caught my eye in the demo, though, was the vehicular manslaughter segment.  I maintain {{% game "Grand Theft Auto III" %}}more{{% /game %}} {{% game "Grand Theft Auto: Vice City" %}}than{{% /game %}} {{% game "Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas" %}}a{{% /game %}} {{% game "Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars" %}}passing{{% /game %}} {{% game "Grand Theft Auto IV" %}}interest{{% /game %}} in the sport of cars-versus-pedestrians, and the driving section of the Br&uuml;tal Legend demo did not disappoint!  Eddie Riggs's "customizable hot rod" is a box-cover bullet point, so I'm hopeful that the full game's implementation can continue to satisfy.

The demo shows promise, but I guess I'm still not sold on the whole concept coming together.  We'll see how it fares in the review trenches come Rocktober 13th.

Oh yeah - in the demo at least, there was no health bar.  Which is great for a clean interface, but I had no idea if I was about to die.  Hopefully there's something I'm missing here, else unexpected deaths could get pretty frustrating pretty fast.

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- Played the demo</i>