+++
date = "2009-10-23T00:05:04-07:00"
title = "Bionic Commando (2009)"
slug = "bionic-commando-2009-8"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Bionic Commando (2009)"]
platform = ["X360"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Here's a sampling of the protagonist's catchphrases.

* "Chew on that!"
* "Hole in one!"
* "I'll send ya' the bill later!"

Each of these phrases - and more, including a wolf howl - can be triggered when you kill someone, regardless of <i>how</i> they were killed.  (The last one is my favorite.)

So there have been two main developments in my last three hours of playing Bionic Commando:

- The story has become more retarded.  There was a cutscene somewhere in the 30-40\% range, where ... you know, I don't feel like I can appropriately describe it.  The game's writing is just fucking awful.

- The gameplay has become more challenging, and hence, generally, more fun.  It was one thing when I was just blithely swinging around and zip-lining into guys; but now that enemies are putting up more of a fight (killer robots!!), and I'm getting more moves, the game is actually starting to make a case for itself.

The exception to this last point is that <i>some</i> of the new difficulty I'm encountering is, well, stupid.  Nathan will die if he stays underwater or in radiation clouds for more than a few seconds - so if you fall in head-deep water, and there isn't a grapple point nearby, you're toast.  Meanwhile, the radiation clouds are damn near invisible sometimes, especially when they're above you, because <b>they're the same color as the sky</b>.

Of course, unexpected deaths are made more bothersome by the sometimes infuriating placement (or lack thereof) of checkpoints.  There was one 10-15 minute segment I had to near-fully replay three times over.

At this point though, I'm comfortable saying that the pure <i>fun</i> of being a bionic commando is making up for the game's other shortcomings.  Not that it's great, but, at least something more than mediocre.

<i>Progress: 52\%</i>