+++
date = "2013-08-05T23:34:46-07:00"
title = "It's a little 'e'.  Really, really little."
slug = "its-a-little-e-really-really-little"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Picross e"]
platform = ["3DS"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

I was astonished - in a good way! - to discover that Jupiter was still churning out Picross games.  None of that {{% game "Picross 3D" %}}wacky cube shit{{% /game %}}, either -- real, {{% game "Picross DS" %}}hard-core Picross{{% /game %}}, now as downloadable chunks of puzzley goodness from the eShop.  (I only happened to notice that the <i>sequel</i> to this game, {{% game "Picross e2" %}}Picross e2{{% /game %}}, was just released.  So there's even more where this came from.)

More Picross!  That's cool.  Unfortunately I've just run into what may be the achilles heel of this version: I'm up to 15x15 puzzle grids, and there's still no 'zoom' feature.  The grid squares are getting pretty damn small, and it's genuinely tough to hit them without accidentally hitting something else.

According to the <a href="http://www.nintendo.com/games/detail/LIL6Uo6g5kQtstE7Ka_CT-02lDMfMvyA">Nintendo description</a>, 15x15 is as big as the puzzles get, which at least means that this problem won't worsen.  But it also suggests a fairly low difficult ceiling.  {{% game "Picross DS" %}}Picross DS{{% /game %}} got up to <b>25x20</b>.  Come on guys -- just because it's a small game, doesn't mean it needs small puzzles.

The puzzles I've done so far are barely scratching the surface of difficulty; I think the longest one I've done so far was about three minutes.  I can only assume that the remaining ... 100 or so puzzles will ramp the challenge considerably upward.

<i>Progress: Finished Easy Mode, 32 Normal puzzles.</i>