+++
date = "2007-08-24T21:33:05-07:00"
title = "Metroid Prime 3: Corruption"
slug = "metroid-prime-3-corruption-8"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Metroid Prime 3: Corruption"]
platform = ["Wii"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

Samus's new orders, after waking up from her month-long phazon coma, are to investigate and deal with space pirate shenanigans on other planets.  The other three hunters were already on these cases, but they all mysteriously broke contact with the Federation one week ago....

The first planet, Bryyo, is a classical ruined homeworld.  As the native lore scans indicate, the Bryyans were once a primitive people, until their scientist caste unlocked the secrets of the rich Fuel Gel deposits in their planet (Fuel Gel is apparently the standard in interplanetary fuel).  They reached for the stars, and touched with both the Chozo and the Luminoth, sharing technology with each of them.  But this bred discontent, as there were some Bryyans who preferred the ancient traditions to the new wave of science.

Tensions rose until a breaking point, where a prominent scientist insulted the conservative Bryyans, and then there was strife - the scientists constructing battle golems and other machinery of war, and the traditionalists delving deep into their darkest clan secrets, using forbidden magicks.  In the end, most of the planet was ruined by their war, save for one city, where most of the survivors relocated.  The architecture really evokes this duality, as the high technology, powered by volatile fuel gel, weaves in with Chozo-like magical constructs.

{{% spoiler %}}But this safe-haven city is where Samus landed; where are the survivors?  As you explore, you find them all encased in ice, an obvious sign of Rundas's presence.  But when Rundas appears to save Samus from marauding pirates, he then turns on the bounty hunter he had previously assisted.  An image of Dark Samus is projected over him, and it is apparent that he is possessed by it.  A boss fight ensues!{{% /spoiler %}}

{{% spoiler %}}After defeating Rundas, he, exhausted, appears about to recompose himself - but large spikes of ice shoot up from under him, fatally impaling the hunter.  Yes, the game confirms that he is fucking dead!  The image of Dark Samus, with black winglike appendages extending from its back (the angel of death), flies from his lifeless body.{{% /spoiler %}}

At 17%, MP3 is already almost as exciting as the entirety of the first Prime.  Not to mention, I already have Ice Missiles, and the game is basically handing Energy Tanks out like candy.  So far I haven't needed most of them, but you never know what's at the next landing site.  Things are really looking fantastic.

Samus's ship plays a much larger role in this title than it has before, which is to say, it plays a role.  First of all, this is not the same gunship she piloted in Primes 1 and 2; this thing has <i>teeth</i>.  Not literally mind you, but it looks like it could take out a capital ship if the GF ever renegged on a bounty.  One of Samus's new visors allows her to call the ship to her at specific points, e.g. to land, and as in the other games the ship is a save point that fully restores ammunition.  Samus can also enter the ship, which opens a number of other functions.

The ship's primary ability is to transport between landing sites, any number of which exist on a given planet.  Think of landing sites as a single, interconnected elevator.  It doesn't exactly make getting around a breeze - forging your way through the map is just as much a part of the game as ever - but as a mechanic, it seems much more useful and convenient than hopping from elevator to elevator, or having a world hub area.

Most of the other functions of the ship, I honestly don't know how to explain.  One of them measures how 'corrupted' Samus is, which is an indication of phazon infection, but has yet to be useful.  Another displays in-game statistics like Enemies Defeated and Shots Fired.  Another deploys and un-deploys the ship's blast shields, with yet another enabling weapon systems, but thus far there have been no ship battles or any other instances where these would be used.  There is also a lever for engaging the thrusters, which I pulled in the beginning of the game and haven't looked at since.

Another cockpit instrument is used for communication.  Activating it brings up a bunch of symbol-buttons to click on (aim at and hit 'A').  This is another thing I used in the beginning - to confirm my security code with the Feds - and haven't been required to use again.  But there do appear to be some {{% abslink href="wp-content/uploads/2007/08/mp3_iwata.mp3" %}}easter eggs{{% /abslink %}} hidden in it.

An upgrade I just got is actually for the ship - air-to-ground missiles!  Now with the command visor, in designated areas, I can call the ship to do a <i>bombing run</i>.  I've already taken out a shield generator and messed up a space pirate cannon installation.  Sweet.

One last thing: if Hypermode (via the PED) is engaged too long, Samus begins to succumb to phazon corruption.  While under normal circumstances the Hypermode bar will deplete over time - and with shots fired - until emptying, in this corrupted hypermode the bar actually begins to fill itself.  If it fills all the way, ... bad things happen.  So the only cure is to go berserk and keep firing until the bar goes down.  And! the Space Pirates have a new weapon, some sort of phazon grenade, that will engage a corrupted hypermode if it detonates near Samus!  Combat becomes even more intense with all this phazon flying around.

<i>Progress: 17%</i>
