+++
date = "2013-12-01T17:21:47-07:00"
title = "Kairo doesn't really have enough content to riff on for a blog title."
slug = "kairo-doesnt-really-have-enough-content-to-riff-on-for-a-blog-title"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Kairo"]
platform = ["PC"]
rating = ["Meh"]
+++

To be fair, Kairo never pretends to be anything more than it is: a minimalist, first-person, 3D exploration and puzzle game.  There are occasional, Valve-like environmental hints at a backstory, but this is never emphasized or important.  Your task is to, essentially, progress through the world -- solving puzzles to do so, where said puzzle-solving is done by shoving objects to move them into place, or walking over switches to activate them.

Not really having a narrative or meaningful exposition, Kairo tries to prop itself up with environmental intrigue (ala <game:Myst>).  But, while Kairo's level architecture is occasionally interesting, the minimalist style leaves it with a general lack of detail.  There simply isn't much of anything going on, here.

The game's puzzles are almost all simple: sometimes pleasantly so, sometimes insultingly.  The pause menu has a helpful hint feature, so if you're really stuck in a room, you can ask the game for a pointer in the right direction.  Unfortunately there are a few instances where this still isn't helpful, because the puzzle relies on some "outside the box" mechanic or idea that didn't even seem to be a possibility.

All in all, Kairo is an interesting design experiment, and a modest production effort, but there isn't really enough <i>about</i> it to feel exciting or even unique.

<b>Better than</b>: <game:Dear Esther>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: <game:Antichamber>  
<b>Like I said at the top</b>: at the least, Kairo seems to know what it is.  It never comes off as pretentious or silly.

<i>Progress: Finished the puzzles, only collected a few extra things.</i>
