+++
date = "2013-12-12T02:20:43-07:00"
title = "Ace Attorney is fine!  Everything is going to be fine!!"
slug = "ace-attorney-is-fine-everything-is-going-to-be-fine"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Dual Destinies"]
platform = ["3DS"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

In its first two cases, Dual Destinies feels mostly like preparation, learning the ropes of the game world and characters.  The following two cases, then, are the meat of an Ace Attorney experience: fascinating mysteries with nuanced evidence trails and clever writing.  At this point, Dual Destinies is a solid franchise entry, if not a series highlight.

But it's that fifth case that really turns things upside-down -- for the better.  Just as in Phoenix Wright's past titles, the final case brings everything together in one impeccably-orchestrated story, and the characters that have taken so long to build up are made to shine their absolute brightest.  The fifth case redeems the occasional tedium of the preceding game by making it all feel meaningful in retrospect.  And there's even a thrilling narrative twist, that I - with all my years of Ace Attorney experience - was honest-to-Gunpei astonished by.  It's ... man.  It's really well done.

The story is great, the presentation is great, and the mechanics are solid as ever.  Ultimately, if there's anything lacking in Dual Destinies (aside from more judicious proofreading -- "tenets," not "tenants," guys), it's the evidence-examination minigames that Phoenix's DS games invented and refined.  Dual Destinies has one or two of these, but could have used a few more, specifically in some instances where items have to be assembled or re-arranged.  At any rate, the game is a great success even without these.

Phoenix is going to have trouble keeping his law office in check, with all these new, talented lawyers filling it up.

<b>Better than</b>: {{% game "Ace Attorney Investigations: Miles Edgeworth" %}}Ace Attorney Investigations: Miles Edgeworth{{% /game %}}  
<b>Not as good as</b>: maybe the first {{% game "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney" %}}Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney{{% /game %}}, but it's hard to say with certainty.  It's right up there with the best of them.  
<b>Here's hoping that this excellent production</b>: signals a dramatic return to the spotlight for Ace Attorney.  Until then, on to the {{% game "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Dual Destinies: Special Episode - Turnabout Reclaimed" %}}DLC{{% /game %}}!

<i>Progress: Complete.</i>