+++
date = "2013-12-16T00:26:05-07:00"
title = "Set Sail for Adventure!"
slug = "set-sail-for-adventure"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Dual Destinies: Special Episode - Turnabout Reclaimed" ]
platform = [ "3DS" ]
rating = [ "Good" ]
+++

There are two reasons why this DLC episode for [Dual Destinies](game:Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Dual Destinies) is so exciting.

The first is that the Special Episode itself, the bonus case, is very well done.  As a self-contained case, it doesn't have the deep backstory that a full-length game can reach; but it contends just fine with the series' very best one-off cases.  There are pirates, there's a <i>whale wearing a hat</i>, and there are even some rapping freestyle cross-examinations.  And as with Ace Attorney's best content, despite the silliness of its characters and scenes, there is a real, sensible and compelling mystery underpinning it all.  It's a great case to unravel.

The second reason is that it proves out a whole new delivery mechanism for Ace Attorney cases.  Of course, it's obvious from this episode's <i>amount</i> of content that it was under development while Dual Destinies itself was still awaiting release; but as a drop-in addition to the existing game engine, it shows that we no longer need to wait years between cases.  Hell, Capcom could even take a note from [Telltale](game:The Walking Dead: Season One) and drip-feed a larger-scale story, one downloadable case at a time.

The future of Ace Attorney is looking pretty bright.

<b>Better than</b>: the first two or three cases of <game:Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Dual Destinies>  
<b>Not as good as</b>: the last case of <game:Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney - Dual Destinies>  
<b>So, overall</b>: pretty good!

<i>Progress: Complete.</i>
