+++
date = "2006-10-03T22:00:08-07:00"
title = "Rock n' Roll Racing"
slug = "rock-n-roll-racing-2"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Rock n' Roll Racing"]
platform = ["SNES"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

Racing games have come into two different subdivisions over the years - straight-out racing simulations, and combat racers. Some of (if not the) first combat racers were on the SNES, including the first {{% game "Super Mario Kart" %}}Mario Kart{{% /game %}} game, and Rock 'N' Roll Racing. (Interesting side-note - as it turns out, Rock 'N' Roll Racing was made by the company that would later become Blizzard Entertainment)

Rock 'N' Roll Racing puts you in a futuristic universe, where you must travel from planet to planet in a premise similar to {{% game "F-Zero" %}}F-Zero{{% /game %}}. However, unlike the aforementioned game, you'll have missiles, traps, and boosters to help you get ahead - whether it's by pushing yourself up, or pushing your opponents down.

The plot of Rock 'N' Roll Racing is, as I said, similar to F-Zero's; you're in a futuristic universe, and you jump from planet to planet winning races and collecting money in a racing circuit. A very basic story, if it's a story at all, but why do you need one anyway?

Rock 'N' Roll Racing is all about gameplay. First, you must choose a racer, each of whom has different advantages and disadvantages in Speed, Acceleration, Jumping, and Cornering. In single-player mode, you'll win money from winning races (and getting money powerups during the race). Use your money to buy new cars, or to outfit your existing one, with stronger armor (for more health, to sustain more shots); a better engine (for top speed and acceleration); shock absorbers (for jumping); better tires (for better handling); and increase your capacity for missile weapons, traps, and boosters (which are different for each car). There will be a series of races on a series of planets (you must earn a certain number of points from winning on a planet to get to the next planet), each more difficult than the one before it - because your opponents will upgrade too. There are also two ways to play two-player: cooperative in the story mode, or Versus, where points and money don't matter, because you can go to any planet and buy any car (fully upgraded) at any time.

RNRR has fine graphics - not the best, but they work. The (lyric-less) music tracks are very nice; songs like ''Born to be Wild'' and the Peter Gunn theme, with excellent sound quality. Sound effects (i.e. explosions, shooting) work very well, and the announcer, Larry, isn't too annoying either.

Rock 'N' Roll Racing will keep you busy for a little (not necessarily for a long time, though), for the thrill of getting a car-stomping power machine, and more importantly, blowing up your opponents. There's also a secret or two in the game, but not much really.

I don't like most racing games, but I like this. It's flat-out car-exploding fun, though the game experience is a little short-lived. I'd say it's at least worth a try to anyone who can find it.

<i>Progress: Complete</i>