+++
date = "2006-10-30T12:37:03-07:00"
title = "Touch Detective"
slug = "touch-detective-5"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Touch Detective"]
platform = ["NDS"]
+++

Though the initial reports I read of this game gave me some trepidation - many remarked on how short it is - I picked this up yesterday to give it the old college try.  Though I haven't completed it yet, it's already looking brief.  I got stuck in the first case (of four) for a while, due to an obfuscated clue, but I finished the second inside of two hours.

At first glance, you might think that Touch Detective looks more like some little girls <i>playing</i> detective than an actual mystery game, and to some degree you're right; they really don't know what they're getting themselves into.  But the caliber of investigation and reasoning is just as solid as a classic Lucasarts point-and-click.

Then again, as I mentioned, there was a point in the first case where I got stuck with absolutely no idea of what to do next (yes, Virginia, I had to look it up on the InterWeb to proceed).  This is definitely the worst thing that can happen to such a game; when the next step is unclear, and all the hints around you are either unhelpful or seem to point somewhere else entirely.  Fortunately, this situation hasn't recurred so far.

Like I said, I haven't finished this game yet, but if I had to sum up my impressions thus far, I think "lackluster" might be a word I'd use.  Stay tuned for more (at this rate, I'll probably be finished by next entry).

<i>Progress: Finished Episode 2</i>