+++
date = "2006-10-16T10:23:01-07:00"
title = "Vexx"
slug = "vexx-6"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Vexx"]
platform = ["Gamecube"]
rating = ["Awful"]
+++

Every time I turn on the game, I think "this can't possibly be worse than the last time I played," and I'm frequently wrong.  I'm not talking about how the game's plot is completely vacant (it is) or how all the gameplay is a direct ripoff of [Super Mario 64](game:Super Mario 64 DS) (it is); I'm talking about goals that are made nearly impossible due to control and/or camera difficulties.  When an enemy is attacking me but I can't see it because the camera is behind a tree, or when I'm trying to run down a hallway with smashing pistons but the camera forces itself into a "cinematic" position, I mean these kinds of problems should never exist in the first place.  I'd settle for being able to <i>move</i> the camera, but often that's too much to ask for.

That said, there is a small list of things I like about the game's conceptual design.  For instance, one of the worlds - "The Below" - puts you in an underwater dome, and has you solve some puzzles presumably left there by aliens (which, to my knowledge, is an area not yet explored by most platformers).  There are also a few very cool graphical effects, like one-way portal mirror things.  Yeah, this is pretty much the best I can say about Vexx.

Why do I keep playing?  Because if I quit, Vexx will have defeated me, and I cannot abide by that.

<i>Progress: 40/60 Wraithhearts</i>