+++
date = "2006-10-03T22:00:20-07:00"
title = "EarthBound"
slug = "earthbound-2"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["EarthBound"]
platform = ["SNES"]
rating = ["Awesome"]
+++

EarthBound is one of the weirdest, and finest, games ever made. A combination of eccentricity, innovation, and humor makes this game a truly unique one. There's really nothing quite like it.

EarthBound is unlike most RPGs in that it takes place in modern times. No medieval setting, no post-apocalyptic wasteland, EarthBound places you in a world with towns and cities, cars and buses, dogs and bikes. In fact, in many ways, EarthBound is startlingly realistic. However, in at least as many, it's not - while the setting may make sense initially, you'll encounter enemies from Spinning Robot to Pile of Puke, and towns from a lost underworld inhabited by dinosaurs to a world inside your own mind, that seem so ridiculously out of place it's funny.

You are young boy from Onett town named Ness. The evil entity Giygas is trying to take over the world/universe, and you have been ordained by a mysterious alien to stop him - but first, you must enhance your power by finding the eight "Your Sanctuary" locations scattered around the world. Every piece of the game's story, from abrupt introduction to surprise ending, is full of jokes and quirky developments. It's a joy to play.

EarthBound's originality doesn't end with the story. Basic turn-based gameplay mechanics are supplemented by Auto-Fight, which basically lets the game battle for you (it's not too bright, but if it's an easy battle, you may as well sit back and relax). The spells (called PSI, psychic powers) and items which you'll use in battle have a nice blend of RPG staples like fire, ice, and food, and unique (or uniquely executed) elements like teleportation and bags of dragonite. EarthBound's greatest shine, however, is outside of battle - like a few other RPGs, enemies will appear in the field, and battle will be initiated by coming in contact with them; but unlike the others, the enemies that appear in the field actually have an AI. Usually, they'll run after you and try to attack you (and if they contact you from behind, they'll get a free opening attack in battle); but if you're a lot stronger than the enemy, it will run away (and if you contact it from behind, you'll get a free opening attack). In fact, if you're strong enough when encountering an enemy on the field, you'll automatically win without having to battle and get the proper experience points and items. Like the game says, you don't want to waste your time fighting weaker enemies, do you?

Most of EarthBound's graphics have a bright, cheery look to them - which is appropriate, since the main characters are all kids - but they still retain a healthy variety in the diverse environments of the game. The graphical effects in general are pleasing to the eye. Sound effects can be clumsy at times, but get the job done. The game's music is good and well-fitting its many moods, from panic to mystery.

Most of EarthBound's replay value lies in the typical RPG fare of varied and rare items, but there's also the drive to play the game again just to remind yourself of the overall quirkiness. It's not too long, but also not very short - there's no timer, but putting in upwards of 20 hours probably wouldn't be difficult.

EarthBound is a great game. Disregard its 'kiddy' look - EarthBound is a blast for all ages, full of humor and fun. It's very different - innovative gameplay and story, entertaining for many hours. Almost everything about the game is original. EarthBound is an experience not to be missed.

<i>Progress: Complete</i>