+++
date = "2006-10-03T22:00:12-07:00"
title = "Mega Man Battle Network"
slug = "mega-man-battle-network-2"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Mega Man Battle Network"]
platform = ["GBA"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

The original Mega Man series (mostly for NES) produced eight or nine games; the X series (mostly SNES/Playstation) has produced seven so far; and a handful of other Mega-series (like the original Game Boy games) don't exactly come short on sequels. With a record like that, you'd think that Capcom might prefer churning out more titles in an established franchise than making new franchises altogether - and even in the latter case, typically making new franchises very similar to the old. You'd only be partially right.

Mega Man Battle Network is a testament to the spirit of innovation that remains at Capcom. It is to other Mega Man games what {{% game "Final Fantasy Tactics" %}}Final Fantasy Tactics{{% /game %}} is to other Final Fantasy games, sharing only names and conceptual elements; it otherwise stands completely on its own. It is new, it is different, and it is great.

However, like most Mega Man games - especially first-in-series games - the story is rather scant. MMBN is introduced with an overview of the 'current' world. Robots have, in a way, overtaken the globe. Almost every device is electronic and semi-sentient. People carry their PETs (Personal Electronic Terminals) wherever they go, and use them to communicate over the Internet. They often use programs called NetNavis to navigate the 'net, and in many cases, electronically fight viruses. Herein lies the plot of MMBN, with the main character (Lan) busting viruses with his NetNavi (MegaMan.EXE) in a time when the power of a secret terrorist organization (the WWW) is coming to light, and viruses are running rampant.

Battle Network's gameplay isn't quite like anything Mega Man's ever seen before. There are two overworlds: the real world, where you control Lan and move from place to place, to "jack in" to electronic devices; this leads to the virtual world where MegaMan.EXE takes the stage. In this second overworld, random battles, not-so-random battles, and puzzles are commonplace. The overworlds are viewed from a fixed overhead 3/4 perspective. The battle screen is set up like a perfect turn-based grid system, with a 3x3 grid for Mega Man, and a 3x3 grid for his enemies; but it is not turn-based. Both computer control over enemies and player control over Mega Man is in real-time, moving from panel to panel and launching attacks against the other side. Though Mega Man can fire his classic buster, and charge it up with the proper upgrades (which are bought or found), he'll probably be more reliant on Battle Chips. These chips execute routines that can attack, defend, heal, or cause any number of alternate effects. Some chips can even alter the battlefield, weakening or destroying panels. At the beginning of a battle and after time delays of no less than ten seconds, you're given the opportunity to download battle chips to Mega Man; the game uses a (somewhat complex, though easily learned) multi-tiered system to determine what chips you can choose. The immense variety of actions and events that can be carried out in battle make it something you just need to experience.

MMBN's graphics range widely, some elements mediocre and some beautiful, but it rarely, if ever, looks "bad." The sound effects leave something to be desired, and though the music themes seem very bland and repetitive, they can (sometimes) grow on you. Summarily, MMBN's presentation could be better, but it could also be worse.

Battle Network has slightly more replay value than you'd expect from a first-of-its-franchise title in today's day and age - enough to keep an interested player coming back for a while, but nothing incredible. Beyond the realm of the standard game, there are a few areas of the Internet that remain unexplored and unconquered. There's also a total of 175 different kinds of battle chips to collect, and netting them all, as is to be expected, unlocks a final, special chip...

Don't come into MMBN expecting another Mega Man title. Come into it expecting something innovative and fun. You'll be pleased.

<i>Progress: Complete</i>