+++
date = "2008-03-08T05:35:36-07:00"
title = "Super Smash Bros. Brawl"
slug = "super-smash-bros-brawl-10"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Super Smash Bros. Brawl" ]
platform = [ "Wii" ]
+++

In a word: fun.  In a few more: exactly as fun as you expect it to be.

I've already said this - but Brawl is, more or less, the same game you already know as [SSB Melee](game:Super Smash Bros. Melee).  The depth of the game, mechanically, hasn't changed.  What Brawl brings to the table is <i>breadth</i>.  And, it could be said that it does so in an amount that makes it <i>comparable</i> to depth; the wealth of new items and stage gimmicks, and new characters with unique movesets, makes the game slightly more complicated than before.  (It seems more fast-paced, anyway.)

But, by and large, you're already familiar with what Brawl has to offer; not because you've been reading about the game on the <a href="http://www.smashbros.com">Dojo</a>, but because you've already played it.  In fact, having tried three of the four possible controller options somewhat extensively (I don't have a Classic on-hand), an old Wavebird still seems like the best choice.  The fact that the Wii remote's IR pointer just plain <i>doesn't work</i> on the in-game menus are the clearest indication of this.  They didn't want to make a new game.  They made an old game, better.  Given the solidarity of their existing formula, I wouldn't call this a bad thing.

It's certainly not going to revolutionize anything in terms of gameplay.  It <i>might</i> revolutionize what we, as game consumers, expect from big-ticket productions.  The number of modes and unlockables in this game is beyond the scope of 'monumental.'  It is outright, downright, stupidly massive.  I really don't know if I can get all the trophies this time.  I might die trying.

<i>Progress: Falcon Punch!</i>