+++
date = "2008-04-07T20:45:01-07:00"
title = "Indigo Prophecy"
slug = "indigo-prophecy-8"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Indigo Prophecy" ]
platform = [ "PS2" ]
+++

From the beginning, it looked like the plot might get a little ... weird, as it developed, but I'm happy to say that I feel like I'm being eased into it real nicely.  The way the game has spent time to make me feel comfortable with the characters - aside from time spent on fleshing out the game's story - is really admirable.  For the most part, anyway.  (There was one scene where I played the main character as a kid, in a flashback, and it was clear that the dialog writers didn't know they were writing for children, because the diction and vocabulary was the same as the adult character.)

Again, I have to say that what I dislike most about the game is the "game" part of it.  The two-stick Simon game it uses in most interactive situations works really well, but there are some sequences that are just too goddamn long.  It's not hard to do, just distracting, and when it lasts for a few minutes just so I can play a few notes on a guitar, I feel like I've wasted my time.  Moving the characters around is also becoming a major pain, as the control stick orientation is constantly getting messed up by the cinematic moving camera.

But the story is really compelling.  I'm drawn to it in a way similar to [Hotel Dusk](game:Hotel Dusk: Room 215), in that I tend not to jump on whenever I have a minute; rather, on a daily basis, I'll sit down and play out a few chapters.  And while I'm not sure how much I'm actually affecting the larger story based on my dialog and action choices in the game, it does lend a great deal of personality to the story, making me feel more immersed in it.

<i>Progress: 1/28, 9:27 AM</i>