+++
date = "2010-09-01T22:25:30-07:00"
title = "Dead Rising 2: Case Zero"
slug = "dead-rising-2-case-zero-4"
category = [ "Playing A Game" ]
game = [ "Dead Rising 2: Case Zero" ]
platform = [ "X360" ]
+++

The brilliance of Dead Rising 2: Case Zero - aside from being a way to charge people for a pre-release demo - is that <i>it itself</i> has a demo, per Xbox Live Arcade rules and regs.  Unfortunately, I spent more time watching cutscenes and loading screens than I did actually playing the game -- so the small glimpse of <game:Dead Rising 2> it afforded me wasn't very substantial.

The weapon combo mechanic is an awesome idea, marred somewhat by the challenge of getting a useful weapon back to a work bench without consuming it.  Fragile weaponry still seems more like a balance patch than a real gameplay mechanic.  That said, the few weapons I did get to pick up lasted a little longer than I expected them to.  But, the zombies weren't all that dense; and many weapons were still borderline useless.  (I guess the drill could be pretty neat in some combos, but by itself it's just a great way to get attacked from behind.)

That the zombie attack mechanism <i>still</i> takes away health before giving me a chance to escape, is my biggest concern.  This, to me, was a very clear error in <game:Dead Rising>'s game design.  That the sequel preserves it suggests that it may not do much to allay my many other concerns about the first game.

Then again, the aiming controls work <b>much</b> better.  Not just better-than-awful, but about as good as you could possibly expect from a game that isn't primarily a shooter.  There's a targeting reticle and everything!

So, after playing the demo of the demo, I'm still on the fence about Dead Rising 2.  Great.

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- Played the demo (the free demo of the paid demo)</i>