+++
date = "2012-01-22T16:37:44-07:00"
title = "Mass Effect 3"
slug = "mass-effect-3-3"
category = ["Looking Forward To It"]
game = ["Mass Effect 3"]
platform = ["PC"]
+++

<a href="http://www.joystiq.com/2012/01/16/mass-effect-3-isnt-launching-on-steam-requires-origin/">Requires Origin</a>?  That's unfortunate.  Admittedly, I haven't had any personal experience with EA's new-ish game marketplace/platform -- because of all the people I know who <i>have</i> dealt with it, none of them have had anything nice, or even <i>tolerable</i> to say about it.  {{% game "Battlefield 3" %}}Battlefield 3{{% /game %}}'s PC version UI is a well-documented clusterfuck.  And {{% game "Star Wars: The Old Republic" %}}Star Wars: The Old Republic{{% /game %}}, apparently, requires registration and authentication on Origin even though the game itself has no presence on or functional link with it.

It sounds trite to say that Steam availability is a deal-maker or -breaker; they have their own DRM, and Gunpei knows that the Steam client software isn't perfect (take its download manager -- please!).  But if I'm paying anything close to full-price for a PC game, I want to know that the DRM won't infect the rest of my system, and that I can re-download said game, as I please, in effective perpituity.  Valve is a stable entity, and has earned my trust: I have no reason <i>not</i> to believe that they will allow me to continue playing Steam-purchased software, even if Steam ceases to exist.  EA, on the other hand, has never faltered at an opportunity to screw its customers, and so I have little confidence in the return on any money I might give to their download service.

Which is a really roundabout way of saying, if it isn't on Steam, I'll probably just wait for it to be a $5 download from Amazon.