+++
date = "2012-01-19T21:44:52-07:00"
title = "Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning"
slug = "kingdoms-of-amalur-reckoning-4"
category = [ "Looking Forward To It" ]
game = [ "Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning" ]
platform = [ "PC" ]
+++

My absolute first impression was not favorable -- the Kingdoms of Amalur demo requires you to have, and sign in with, an EA account.  I imagine this is vital for (among EA's other marketing purposes) the advertised item unlocks, particularly those that'll apply to <game:Mass Effect 3>, but even in today's era of always-online fuck-you DRM, it's still typical to allow an Offline/No-Signin mode.  Kind of a letdown, here.

Anyway, the next surprise waiting for me was the game's overall aesthetic.  The trailers I've watched looked a bit <i>exaggerated</i>, maybe, but the game itself looks <b>cartoonish</b>.  Actually, it seems deliberately styled to resemble <game:World of Warcraft>, and the nerdy gnomes in the starting area certainly don't dissuade that comparison.

The quests I saw in the demo were also highly reminiscent of WoW, or more specifically, of my earlier experiences with WoW -- before the game became so diluted and streamlined.  Listening to an NPC explain his plight, and then venturing out into the wilderness to find who/whatever he needs, before returning and picking up the next link of the quest chain; it's refreshing, although familiar at the same time.  I was engaged enough during my demo time, but I do wonder if this content can continue to be interesting for more than a couple hours.

Pleasantly, there does seem to be a <i>lot</i> of content.  The starting area was rich with lore and interactive objects, and the town immediately outside, daunting with available quests -- and then I took a look at the world map, of which this region is a relatively insignificant part.  And then of course is the depth of character customization, which - between the multiple weapon and armor slots, D&D-style skill points, WoW-style talent trees, and "Fate cards" which can change your passive, class-like bonuses - is both engrossing and satisfying.

But another surprise was how unpolished some of the story content seemed.  A primary NPC I spoke to early in the game, had recorded lines which sounded like they were <i>directed</i> contrary to how they were written -- awkward emphasis and word substitution, which didn't really make sense in context.  And even in my relatively brief time with the game, I encountered a number of times where an NPC or quest marker didn't react as it was supposed to.  While it's certainly playable, it's striking to me how <i>unfinished</i> it seems, and unless this is a pre-release build (the game comes out in a few weeks!), that doesn't really bode well.

Kingdoms of Amalur invites comparison to World of Warcraft and to [Skyrim](game:The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim), and while it may be more personalized than the former and more technologically <i>stable</i> than the latter, it remains to be seen if it can match the long-term intrigue of either.  I had fun with this demo, but I'll need to hear some more <a href="http://www.metacritic.com/game/pc/kingdoms-of-amalur-reckoning">in-depth critiques</a> before making a purchasing decision.

<i>Progress: Played through the demo</i>