+++
date = "2006-12-29T09:17:34-07:00"
title = "Metroid Prime Pinball"
slug = "metroid-prime-pinball-3"
category = ["Playing A Game"]
game = ["Metroid Prime Pinball"]
platform = ["DS"]
rating = ["Good"]
+++

As I said; it has remarkable features and polish, but at its heart, Metroid Prime Pinball is still a pinball game.  I'm simply not good at pinball, which leads to a certain amount of boredom in the genre.  This one is still pretty fun in short bursts, which makes it a good travel game at least.  And I'm sure that if you're a fan of pinball this will be among your favorites.

Some other things to comment on:

* Length - there are two starting tables (Tallon Overworld and Pirate Frigate), two intermediate tables (Phazon Mines and Phendrana Drifts), then another table (Artifact Shrine) and a final table (Impact Crater).  Which may not seem like much, but I personally was never able to progress past the second set of tables.
* Multiplayer - there is only one table (and one goal on that table, a score target) available for multiplayer, which makes it a little tedious, especially considering the matches are a bit on the short side.  This is wireless multiplayer; no wi-fi here.
* Sound - MP Pinball's soundtrack is mostly comprised of slightly-remixed <game:Metroid Prime> music, and it sounds excellent, really one of the highlights of the game.  Sound effects are also very crisp.

It also comes with a free DS rumble pack, which goes in the GBA game slot and is compatible with certain other games, like <game:Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time>.  The force feedback isn't extremely effective, but hey, free rumble pack.

<i>Progress: Gave Up -- Unlocked Phendrana Drifts</i>
