+++
category = ["Site News"]
date = "2017-01-01T08:41:59-08:00"
draft = false
title = "2016: Hey, It Could Be Worse"
+++

In 2015, {{% abslink href="2016/01/01/2015-a-shameful-embarrassment-of-statistical-failure/" %}}I lamented{{% /abslink %}} a sharp drop in my yearly games played, from 100+ to <i>29</i>.  Ouch.

In 2016, I managed <b>45</b>.  So... still not great.  But less not-great!  I'm getting more un-non-great.

And, yeah, I did fall critically behind on my glogging for most of October, November, and December; 14 of those games didn't get glogged until the last week of the year.  It was, and still is, a struggle to write stuff up when there's so much {{% game "The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Special Edition" %}}Skyrim{{% /game %}} to do.

If I had to pick a theme for my gaming habits this past year, ... I really don't know that I could.  (Gun to my head, I would probably get shot.)  My 2016 held a pretty even mix of originals (24) and franchise entries (21), with some replays (4) but mostly in the form of remasters (3).

So I think I did alright.  Could have done worse, anyway.

Platform breakdown:

* {{% platform "PC" %}}PC{{% /platform %}}: <b>36</b> <i>(41 games, 3 DLCs, 1 demo)</i>
* {{% platform "PS4" %}}PS4{{% /platform %}}: <b>4</b> <i>(actually six, but I didn't bother glogging about playing through {{% game "Uncharted 2: Among Thieves" %}}Uncharted 2{{% /game %}} and {{% game "Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception" %}}3{{% /game %}} again)</i>
* {{% platform "Android" %}}Android{{% /platform %}}: <b>3</b> <i>(more than any previous year)</i>
* {{% platform "3DS" %}}3DS{{% /platform %}}: <b>2</b> <i>(and they were both picross games!)</i>

<b>Pleasant original experiences</b>

* {{% game "Aviary Attorney" %}}Aviary Attorney{{% /game %}}: <i>"It's smart, funny, and almost entirely logical, despite ... birds."</i>
* {{% game "Her Story" %}}Her Story{{% /game %}}: <i>"[...] organically stumbling upon story beats is satisfying in a really unique way."</i>
* {{% game "Last Word" %}}Last Word{{% /game %}}: <i>"You gain experience by winning arguments. If that isn't one of the coolest game ideas you've ever heard, then, you're wrong."</i>
* {{% game "TIS-100" %}}TIS-100{{% /game %}}: <i>"[...] successfully replicates the euphoric rush of fixing some ugly code and watching the computer tear through its task."</i>
* {{% game "The Witness (2016)" %}}The Witness{{% /game %}}: <i>"The island itself is one big, gorgeous, baffling puzzle."</i>

<b><i>Un</i>pleasant original experiences</b>

* {{% game "Bear Simulator" %}}Bear Simulator{{% /game %}}: <i>"I felt like a chump after I scaled a hill and crossed a river using a makeshift log bridge, then found absolutely nothing on the other side."</i>
* {{% game "Murdered: Soul Suspect" %}}Murdered: Soul Suspect{{% /game %}}: <i>"Murdered doesn't just lean heavily on its poorly-told story, it has thoroughly underwhelming game mechanics to boot."</i>
* {{% game "Pony Island" %}}Pony Island{{% /game %}}: <i>"[...] Pony Island's neat premise wears out its welcome well before the end."</i>
* {{% game "Remember Me" %}}Remember Me{{% /game %}}: <i>"[...] it all feels tepid, like a halfhearted imitation of other AAA games."</i>
* {{% game "Toren" %}}Toren{{% /game %}}: <i>"[...] a story that just doesn't go anywhere; an obtuse fable that twists and writhes in its own nonsense."</i>

<b>Satisfying sequels</b>

* {{% game "Deus Ex: Mankind Divided" %}}Deus Ex: Mankind Divided{{% /game %}}: <i>"[...] Deus Ex: Mankind Divided has a lot of fun in it, if you're into exploring finely-detailed game worlds and scouring over their lore."</i>
* The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - {{% game "The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Dawnguard" %}}Dawnguard{{% /game %}} and {{% game "The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Dragonborn" %}}Dragonborn{{% /game %}}, and even {{% game "The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Hearthfire" %}}Hearthfire{{% /game %}}: <i>"[...] a solid addition of questing and exploration to Skyrim's already-impressive world."</i>
* {{% game "The Jackbox Party Pack 3" %}}The Jackbox Party Pack 3{{% /game %}}: <i>"I drew a Pac-Man ghost, and wrote "Eat a bag of dicks," and now my friend owns that on a t-shirt."</i>
* {{% game "Uncharted 4: A Thief's End" %}}Uncharted 4: A Thief's End{{% /game %}}: <i>"When Drake careens down a steep slope, grapples to a tree branch, swings across a ravine and narrowly avoids a grim fate by jamming a piton into a sheer cliff, it's just ... man. It's exhilirating."</i>

<b>Disappointing rehashes</b>

* {{% game "Batman: Arkham Origins Blackgate" %}}Batman: Arkham Origins Blackgate{{% /game %}}: <i>"More than a poor Batman game, and more than a poor game in general, Blackgate is <i>confusingly</i> bad."</i>
* {{% game "LEGO Marvel's Avengers" %}}LEGO Marvel's Avengers{{% /game %}}: <i>"[...] while this game doesn't <i>literally</i> re-tread Super Heroes' ground, it feels an awful lot like it does."</i>
* {{% game "Pokémon Picross" %}}Pokémon Picross{{% /game %}}: <i>"[...] in terms of overall design, <b>the game assumes that I'm not interested in solving puzzles</b>, which is very distasteful and off-putting."</i>
* {{% game "Wolfenstein: The Old Blood" %}}Wolfenstein: The Old Blood{{% /game %}}: <i>"[...] there isn't any grand narrative payoff to defeating a room full of crazy enemies. There are only more crazy enemies."</i>

<b>Ongoing obsessions</b>

* {{% game "The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Special Edition" %}}The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Special Edition{{% /game %}} will watch me die.
* And {{% game "Monkey Wrench" %}}Monkey Wrench{{% /game %}} is what I'll be playing during bathroom breaks.

<b>Anything cool coming up in 2017?</b>

* {{% game "Yooka-Laylee" %}}Yooka-Laylee{{% /game %}} should be good.  Not too worried about that one.
* Will {{% game "Factorio" %}}Factorio{{% /game %}} finally be released?  (I'm not getting my hopes up.)
* Who knows, maybe {{% game "The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild" %}}The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild{{% /game %}} and {{% game "Mass Effect: Andromeda" %}}Mass Effect: Andromeda{{% /game %}} won't be huge disappointments.  Maybe.
